So, everyone is talking about MCPs, AI 
agents, and agentto agent protocol. If 
you feel left out, this is the only 
video you need to watch to catch up. In 
this video, we'll talk about AI agents, 
MCPS, and agent to agent model in a 
super simplified manner with 
visualizations that will make it easy 
for anyone to understand. No background 
knowledge in AI or AI models or coding 
or programming required. In the first 
part, we'll explain the why and the what 
behind these concepts. And then in part 
two, we'll dive into some code and 
understand the how behind its 
implementation. And you'll also gain 
access to a hands-on lab that you can 
use to practice this as you watch this 
video. So we'll start with something we 
already know, chat GPT. So what is chat 
GPT? It is really two things, a chat 
application and a GPT attached to it. 
The chat part itself is just an 
application like any other chat app that 
we know. The GPT part is the large 
language model. That's the AI. There are 
so many other LLMs that you have 
probably already heard of such as Claude 
from Enthropic, Deepseek, Gemini, Llama, 
etc. But we're not going to get into 
more details about specifics of LLM in 
this video. We'll just refer to the AI 
as LLMs and that LLM could be any of 
these models for the remainder of this 
video. That's all you need to know about 
LLMs. So the way it works is when a user 
asks a question in charge, the 
application sends a request to the AI 
which is the LLM and the AI generates a 
response and sends it back to the 
application and displays the results on 
screen. Now let's say we are building an 
application called fly GBT similar to 
chat GBT and we wanted to book a flight 
for the user. If I ask it a question say 
I would like to fly to North London it 
should book a flight for me. So we need 
a magical something that my application 
can interact with that would understand 
my request and do as I say based on what 
we just discussed that magical thing 
would be AI in the form of LLM. But if 
you look at the response it's just 
returned instructions in the form of 
text to me. It did not actually boo the 
flight for me. You see that's all an LLM 
can do natively. An LLM can generate 
responses in the form of text, pictures 
or videos, but cannot by itself do 
anything or take any action. But what 
does taking an action mean here? When I 
say I would like to fly to North London, 
my application should be able to 
interact with these thirdparty flight 
services such as Joy Air or Dra Air or 
Aeroggo and retrieve flight details from 
these sites and then also compare that 
against say my preferences such as 
whether I prefer cheap or luxury 
flights, my seat preferences or meal 
preferences and based on all of that 
information make a decision for me and 
not stop until it's retrieved enough 
information to be able to make a 
decision. and then book the flights for 
me and tell me the flight details and 
booking reference numbers. So, I'd like 
my AI to take action for me. So, we need 
something magical, something that can do 
that for us. And what is that? Those are 
called AI agents. AI agents are able to 
interact with third party platforms or 
websites, gather information and combine 
that with a memory that it has based on 
our previous conversations and then 
interact with an LLM, which is a real AI 
here, to make a decision for me. And 
that magical thing is known as an AI 
agent. An AI agent can interact with 
thirdparty tools, have its own memory, 
and interact with an LLM and go back and 
forth between these operations multiple 
times to eventually be able to have 
enough knowledge to make a decision for 
me and then also take an action to book 
a flight for me and not stop until it's 
done that job. That's what an AI agent 
does. Now, one of the most common 
examples of agents that we work with are 
idees that we work with every day. If 
you have worked with cursor, winer or VS 
code and used GitHub copilot, they have 
this agent mode that makes them work as 
an agent. And what does that really 
mean? Work as an agent. In the past, in 
the non-aggent era, if you ask a 
question, it would give you an answer. 
That's all. In an agent mode, you can 
give it one task, a big task even, such 
as build an entire app or troubleshoot 
an issue. It goes through this sequence 
of multiple AI calls and interacting 
with the codebase as well as the 
terminal if needed and does not stop 
until it's done. what you asked it to 
do. That's difference between a chatbot 
calling one LM called to an AI agent 
that performs a series of different 
tasks until it gets things done. 
Now, one of the real world use cases of 
AI agents is in software development. 
You can ask it a question like we 
recently noticed that a button was 
missing on the UI will help me identify 
when and how this changed and share a 
plan to revert it. And the AI agent now 
scans through the code bases, looks at 
the front end and the backend code and 
also the git history via the terminal 
and finally tells you exactly which 
commit caused this change and even how 
to revert that change or fix it. So how 
do I get started with agents? There are 
platforms that have built pre-built 
agents that you can call like agent.ai 
for example where people have built 
hundreds of agents that perform 
different kinds of tasks like video 
script generators or web design graders 
etc. You can integrate these directly in 
your application by invoking them 
remotely or you could build your own 
agents using tools like NA10 without 
having to actually code. NA10 gives you 
the ability to drag and drop and build 
your own agents. Some example workflows 
available on NA10 include automating 
generating AI videos uh on YouTube, 
intelligent email organization with 
content classification, etc. Another 
option would be for you to build an 
agent from scratch using platforms like 
Langchain or Langraph. But we won't get 
into this in any more detail for now. We 
have an entire course that covers these 
topics on our platform. So coming back 
to this, we said that an agent can 
interact with third party platforms this 
way. But how does an agent really 
interact with a third party platform? It 
does that through what are known as 
tools. A tool allows the agent to 
interact with another platform. Let's 
take a closer look at that. So, here the 
agent has the ability to interact with 
these airlines using a tool for each 
one. But how does that tool interact 
with an airline? So, here's a quick 
heads up. If you know about APIs 
already, uh you may want to skip ahead a 
few minutes. If you don't or need a 
refresher, stay on and allow me to 
explain. Well, let's forget about AI and 
tools for a second and see how we 
interact with these airlines as a human 
user. So, as a human user, say I would 
go to the airlines website at say 
www.irates.com. 
com and see that it's returns me a web 
page and click around to find a flight 
as per my preference and book the flight 
and this is known as the UI or the user 
interface of uh the airline. So you have 
the websites or mobile apps all fall 
into this category. But if I were not a 
human user instead if I was a third 
party website like make my trip or 
booking.com or cheap slides I'm an 
application trying to communicate with 
another application. In the past, what 
these thirdparty applications did is 
scrape the websites which is basically 
saving the website as a text file and 
when they scrape the website you get a 
junk text like this which is the HTML 
but within that junk lies the 
information you need which are the 
flight details and so they would run 
complex algorithms against these to pull 
the required flight details from here. 
So eventually the airlines realized it's 
beneficial for them too to be on these 
third party platforms. So the airlines 
told them instead of going to 
emirates.com you can go to 
emirates.com/apiflights 
and when you do that we will just send 
you the flight details in a structured 
format. So you don't have to do any 
crazy parsing algorithms and that 
interface that applications provide to 
other applications is known as an 
application programming interface or 
APIs. 
Now, not only did they say you could 
retrieve flight details if you call the 
/appi/book flights, then we would book 
the flight tickets for you and return 
the booking reference number. So, you 
can let your customers book the flights 
from your own website without even 
coming to our site. Now, I'm super 
simplifying this. So, if you go to these 
URLs, it won't work like this because it 
requires authentication and 
authorization and other mechanisms. But, 
we have a hands-on lab that will help 
you learn all about this MCP. So, check 
it out using the link in the description 
below. I'll also walk you through the 
lab at the end of this video. So just to 
summarize that the interface that users 
use to interact with the site is called 
the user interface and the interface 
that the applications use to interact is 
called as an API. So back to this now 
that we know how applications interact 
with applications. How do you think 
tools interact with airlines? Well 
through APIs. So each tool is a piece of 
code that interacts with the API of the 
respective airlines to retrieve flight 
information and those details are then 
shared with LLMs to make a decision and 
then based on the decision, the agent 
uses the tool again to make another API 
call to book the flight on the 
respective airlines. In this case, the 
agent made another API call to the Joy 
Air to book the flight on that airline. 
Now, if you take a closer look at that 
call, you'll see that each call is 
different. The first one is / 
API/flights. The second one is 
/flights-list. 
The third one is list flights. And also 
their responses are different too. The 
first flight returns uh information in a 
format that has flight number, origin, 
destination. The second one returns uh 
information that says flight number from 
and to. And the third one uh says 
detailed flights and flight and start 
and finish etc. So each airline has its 
own standard when it comes to their 
APIs. There are hundreds of airline 
sites and there are millions of other 
third party sites. And if I want my 
application to interact with all of 
them, do I now need to write all of 
these adapter codes? Now we are in the 
AI world and I shouldn't have to do 
this. Well, gone are those days where I 
would sit and write programs to connect 
to these different flight service 
providers one by one. Why can't AI just 
do it for me? Only if there was some 
magical solution that existed that could 
do that for me. And so comes MCPs or 
model context protocols. Well, think of 
MCPS as a guide for the AIS to choose 
the right APIs and interact with the 
third party platforms. Well, MCPs 
provide agents the context they need to 
make the right API calls. What does that 
mean? For example, it might look like 
this. In this case, the MCP tells the 
agent that Joy Air has search flights 
and bookflight capabilities. And the 
input structure looks like this. And the 
output structure looks like this. And 
we'll dig deeper into the implementation 
of this uh in the part two when it comes 
to building an MCP server. So MCP was 
introduced by Anthropic, the company 
behind Claude, and has since been open 
source and is now the default standard 
used by everyone to build AI agents. 
Now, so if you go to model context 
protocol/servers, you can find MCP 
servers for a long list of applications. 
Now, every agent has an MCP 
configuration file located at mcp.com at 
some location depending on what agent 
you're using. So you must specify the 
name of the MCP. In this case, it's 
MongoDB. The command and arguments 
associated with it uh associated with 
running the MongoDB MCP server. In this 
case, the arguments are MongoDB's 
connection string to reach the database, 
which is my local database. This allows 
the agent to use the MCP server's 
abilities to connect to the database and 
retrieve information as well as make 
modifications to the data. Now, in my 
case, it's a local database. The 
location of this file depends upon the 
tool being used. Cursor for example has 
this path specified at the cursor 
directory in the user's home directory 
for windsurf it's under 
thecodium/winsurfs 
directory and this is a path for the 
configuration file for claude 
so going back to this MCP server works 
in a client server model so instead of 
interacting with the API directly we now 
have the MCP server for each of these 
airlines and then you have an MCP client 
at the agent that interacts with these 
MCP servers 
And so a combination of AI agents that 
has memory, has cold-driven behavior, 
and has access to AI as an LM with MCP 
servers that helps AI agents discover 
the capabilities of third party 
applications help us build magical 
solutions to problems. Now it's time for 
us to expand and scale up. This agent 
can only book flights, but what if we 
want to expand our use case to book 
hotels, too? So, one thing I could do is 
expand this agent to add more MCP 
servers to also connect to hotels, but 
that's going to add bloat to my agent. 
Uh, now my agent needs to be good at two 
things and remember uh my preferences 
for two things. I might have amenities, 
beds, and other preferences for my hotel 
which are different from those for 
flights. So, we ideally want one agent 
to do one thing and do that thing 
really, really well. And so our next 
option is to build a new agent that can 
do the hotel booking really well that 
has its own integration with MCP servers 
and has its own memory with those 
specific preferences. And my original 
agent is going to call this agent. So 
that's an agent to agent call. Now I 
have one flight agent that's really good 
at finding and booking flights. And I 
have another hotel agent that's really 
good at booking hotels. 
But how does one agent talk to another 
agent? How does one agent know what are 
the capabilities of another agent? What 
format can one agent pass information to 
another agent? Well, this is where the 
agentto aagent model comes in. The 
agentto aagent model was developed by 
Google with the goal of making it 
possible for agents to be able to 
collaborate in a dynamic multi- aent 
ecosystem with support and contributions 
from a lot of other partners in the 
ecosystem. So, how does it work? The 
agentto agent model allows one agent to 
discover capabilities in the other 
agent. For example, the flight agent can 
ask the hotel agent, "What can you do?" 
The hotel agent responds with its 
capabilities that it can search and book 
hotels. Then the flight agent gives the 
hotel agent a task to search for the 
best hotels and then the hotel agent 
responds back with the results of that 
task. So agentto agent uh model defines 
a set of standards that allows agents to 
discover each other's capabilities. It 
defines a standard to assign task to 
another agent and check its status. It 
defines a standard on how agents 
communicate with each other and also 
defines how context and results are 
shared back and forth between agents. 
We'll see this in more detail in part 
two of this video. Well, let's take a 
look at some real world use cases of 
agents and MCPs. Here's one use case 
that we spoke about earlier with 
reference to development. Say if I have 
an issue with my application, I could 
say we recently noticed that a button 
was missing. help me identify when and 
how this changed and should I plan to 
revert. The AI agent interacts with the 
get history uh reads the back end and 
front end code and then identifies the 
exact change or commit that caused this 
change. The next use case is using AI 
agents and MCPS to build backend 
applications. In this case, we are 
developing APIs and I'd like my agent to 
have access to the MongoDB database so 
that during the development of the APIs, 
the agent can test these APIs and make 
sure the data is available in MongoDB. 
So this is a very helpful use case. And 
then here's another one that we had 
internally. So we have uh three uh data 
sources. Stripe, Google, bequery which 
is our data infrastructure and then we 
have metabase which is a visualization 
platform. We had an issue where uh we 
were missing an invoice detail from a 
particular stripe record and we were not 
able to identify which user that was for 
and so we t the AI agent provided it 
access to these three data sources 
through NTPB servers and it was able to 
go on a 5 to 10 minute uh 
troubleshooting journey and eventually 
come back and um tell us uh why it was 
missing and the particular transaction 
ID associated with that and the amount 
associated with that. So uh those are 
some examples of real use cases that the 
uh MCP servers can be used for. Next 
we'll get uh some hands-on experience. 
So we'll head over to the lab using the 
link given in the description below and 
uh let's uh quickly take a look at the 
hands-on labs. 
All right. In this lab, we're going to 
walk through simulation of the flight 
MCP with client in our code you know in 
the VS code editor. So this is a free 
lab that's hosted on codecloud. So use 
the link in the description below to 
gain access to this lab so that you can 
walk through it yourself. So once you 
open the lab environment, you're given a 
a set of instructions on the left side 
here and then you have a set of the VS 
code editor here on the right. So the 
there's some code here that you can 
ignore for now. I'll explain all about 
it in a little bit. So we'll start with 
a quick walk through. So in this lab we 
will explore how to configure the flight 
NCB server in client. So client is 
similar to cursor or or winds surf but 
there's another agent here. So if you 
click on this agent button here, this is 
a VS code extension or plug-in that 
behaves just like the cursor or Windsor 
or other or GitHub copilot that you 
might have worked with. Right? So let's 
click okay and go ahead. So in the next 
step here it says let's set up client. 
So we want to open the client interface 
by clicking on the robot icon on the 
left side of the MWS code server. So 
that's we've just already done that. So 
the first step is to set up a client so 
that you can chat with it, chat with the 
AI. 
So let's go to the next step. Okay. So 
the instruction here is to configure API 
key. So you don't have to bring your own 
keys. We we provide you the keys that 
are needed. So but here you need to 
select use your own API key and then in 
the API provider you'll need to select 
open API compatible this one. Right. 
Right. So now we need to provide a set 
of information including the keys and 
those details are actually available 
here. So it's already available in your 
environment. So if you go to your home 
directory and bash 
profile here you have the keys that are 
needed for you to work with any of these 
endpoints during this lab. And this is 
free for you to use and play around with 
as much as you want. So in this case we 
need the base URL. So the base URL we're 
going to use OpenAI. So I'm going to 
copy this base URL from here. Paste it 
here. And then I need the API key. So 
I'm going to copy the API key for the 
OpenAI 
uh from here to here. And then I need 
the model ID. So the model ID is going 
to be OpenAI/DP-4.1. 
And that's it. And then you click let's 
go. 
Okay. So client is set up. So we're just 
going to close these messages. And we'll 
send a quick test message to check if it 
can hear us. 
So, it's going to send an API request 
and we'll see. Yep, it says I can 
receive a message and respond to your 
request. Let me know what do you need 
help with. Okay. All right. So, this 
step is complete. So, we're going to go 
ahead click okay and go to the next 
step. Okay. So, now we're going to ask 
for flight details and observe that it's 
not working. So, we have not set up the 
MCP server yet, but I'm going to ask it 
to share flight details. So I'm going to 
say can you check flight details for me 
from 
Safo to JFK for today and let's see if 
it's able to do that. 
Okay. So what it's not going to do is 
it's understood my request and it's 
going to open Google and try and access 
you know publicly available flight 
information. But that's not really what 
we need because 
we don't want it to go out and access 
the browser. Instead, we wanted to use 
our MCP tool that already has that 
information, right? So, I'm just going 
to reject that request and prevent it 
from going out. And let's see how we can 
configure the MCP server. It says I'm 
unable to access the browser to look up 
flight details. Would like to provide 
access to a specific API or connect MCP 
server. So, that's what I'm going to do. 
So, to connect the MCP server, 
the steps here are to click on the 
server button at the bottom. So here you 
have manage MCP servers. I'm going to 
click on that and then there's a 
settings icon and then here I have 
configure MCP server. So I'm going to 
click on that and what this does is it 
opens up this client MCP settings.json 
file. So for client this is the the file 
that needs to be updated. Then I'm going 
to go here and copy this configuration 
and I'm going to paste it here. So what 
this means is this is a list of MCP 
servers. I'm going to call mine flight 
sim or flight simulator. And then 
there's this is basically a simple 
script that's located at root flights 
sim mcp and flights sim-mcp.sh. So as 
soon as I put it here, it's already 
become available here. As you can see, 
it's green. This means this MCP server 
is ready to use. So I'm going to click 
on done now. But I just want to take a 
minute and show you what the location of 
this file. So you have this flight sim 
MCP here, which is this path. And if you 
look into this, there is all the code 
that's written to run the this server. 
So this is basically a Python file and 
if you expand this here you're able to 
see this list of uh the code here on the 
src and then you can see the prompts and 
resources and tools and everything 
defined. Don't look at this for now 
because we're going to have another 
video where we explain these in much 
more detail. So let's go back to this 
and let me ask the same question again. 
Can you help me find flights from SFO to 
JFK? 
and we'll give it a minute for it to 
interact. Okay, so it says there's now 
an MTP server available flight sim that 
provides details of first search flights 
and all that. It's given me this details 
and it's done the search and it's 
actually got back with some of these 
details and it's going to make a call 
with some of these details. It's asking 
me for my permission. So I'm just going 
to say approve. 
All right, so it's identified the flight 
and uh you can see the response here. 
But yeah, here's a more human readable 
format. So it says there are these 
airlines that are available. 
And so I'm going to say book the 
cheapest flight for me. And let's see 
what it what it does. 
Now the capabilities of the flight MCP 
tool tells it that it can book the 
flight which is this particular one. But 
it needs these inputs. So the inputs are 
first name and last name. So I'm just 
going to give my name and email. Let's 
say cloud.com 
and they're going to give me a phone 
number, 
right? And let's see if it can pick 
that. 
Okay, it's got the passenger details and 
it's going it's going to do the booking. 
It's asking me for an approval. I'm 
going to say approve. 
I think there's some error in terms of 
validation. I probably did not give the 
right information. Yeah, the phone 
number is not valid. So let's say let's 
say I'm going to give it another number. 
Okay, I'm going to prove again. 
Yeah, I think there's uh probably still 
got the phone number wrong. 
Let's just copy and paste that. 
Now, while it does that, here's 
something else we could do. Okay, so 
that task is complete. So, it's able to 
book my flight and it's given me all the 
flight details and booking numbers and 
all of that, which is pretty cool. Okay, 
so that's a quick demo of using flight 
simulator MCP. So, go ahead and try this 
out yourself. In the upcoming video and 
lab, we will have we'll see how to build 
your own MCP servers. But for now, if 
you'd like to play around with it, you 
can take a look at this codebase and you 
can basically ask client to explain read 
and understand 
code at this location and explain it to 
me. 
Now, as an agent, what it's able to do 
is it has access to the file and folder 
structure. So, it's going to spend some 
time reviewing the directory, reading 
the files, and understanding its 
structure. and it's going to be able to 
tell me and explain to me how it's all 
set up. 
Okay, so there it is. So it's able to 
tell me that it uses a fast NCP server. 
That's what I've used. And there are 
these core features which is search 
flight and get flights and all of that. 
Then there are resources and API prompts 
and it has a modular design. All right. 
So yeah, that's quick intro to the MCP 
server lab. Take a look at it and let us 
know how it goes. Right. In the next 
part of this video, we will dive deeper 
into how to build your own MCB servers 
and clients and the agent to agent 
models. So, do subscribe to our channel 
to be notified when it's out.