My name is Brian. Welcome to BMAG Code. 
This is a follow-up to my last video 
which was all about the breakthrough 
method for agile AIdriven development. 
It basically laid out how to use the 
agile experience that I have taken from 
decades of use and applied it to agentic 
coding or vibe coding to take your vibe 
coding to the next level. This is a 
little bit higher level than just 
getting in there diving in and doing 
your vibe coding. If you didn't watch 
the last video, I do recommend going and 
checking it out though. So, I'll leave a 
link right here. Since the last video 
came out, a lot of people asked me for 
the prompts that I used. So, I did 
create a repo called the BMAD method. 
There's a lot of tools out there, right? 
So, I had some great comments. Why not 
just use Ruse Boomerang Tasks or the 
Taskmaster process? I mean, these are 
great. Even with that, I think in most 
cases, you're going to run into the same 
problem you probably have in the past 
where you get to a certain level of 
complexity, and it's just going to go 
off the rails. It's going to start 
making mistakes, or you're going to burn 
up a lot of credits. My method can save 
you a lot of time, money, and 
frustration to build your true dream app 
that can grow and be quite complex. As 
promised, let's get into the details. We 
need an idea though that we can apply 
this 
to. I want to show you this tool. This 
is Notebook LM. I recommend using 
Notebook LM from Google for anything you 
want to learn about. I love this feature 
over here. So, this right here is a 
podcast that has been generated with AI 
with two hosts speaking about how to do 
prompt engineering. I would like to have 
a custom podcast generated for me, but 
not on this topic. And I don't want to 
have to come into Notebook LM every day 
to generate the podcast. I'm a big fan 
of Hacker News. And what I would really 
like to do now is every day I wanted to 
check the top trending stories on Hacker 
News and produce a 10 to 20 minute 
podcast for me that I will receive in my 
email or maybe my podcast feed and I can 
listen to a summary of all the top news 
on Hacker News every day. So it's a 
little bit ambitious. I don't actually 
know how to do it. So that's where my 
methodology is going to come into play. 
If you remember the agile framework that 
I talked about, we start with the 
business analyst which really helps us 
refine our idea and brainstorm. And 
there's two ways that we can use this BA 
custom mode. We can go into Gemini first 
of all and set up a gem. I like doing 
this in here. A because this is not 
going to use any credits from cursor or 
Klein if I'm using an LLM. This is all 
just included with Gemini. I can use the 
advanced 2.5 model with the full 1 
million token context. So, if I go to my 
BA analyst gem, if I edit it, you'll see 
all I did is I took what was from the 
BMAD method for the BA and I just pasted 
it in here. So, this is now an expert 
that is going to communicate with me and 
help me brainstorm. So, let me go to the 
business analyst and I'm going to use 
Super Whisper right now and I'm just 
going to briefly describe my idea like I 
did just a second ago. I would like to 
create an app using Node.js and 
TypeScript. Initially for the MVP, I 
will just run it locally, but maybe in 
the future we'll run it from the cloud 
such as AWS. But what I would like to do 
is I would like to have it pull the top 
10 trending stories from Hacker News 
when I start the 
application. And I want it 
to then get all of the articles that 
each of the top hacker news articles are 
about and try to scrape those articles 
so we can get the content. I would also 
like you to get the top 50 comments in 
the comment tree of each article so we 
can know what people are talking about 
about each of the top trending items. I 
then would like to take all of that 
content and using a local LLM produce a 
twoperson conversation podcast script. 
We will then take that and we will send 
that to an API service. It should be 
transcribing my text. So now I will 
submit this and you will notice here 
that it is going to ask me questions, 
right? So, it's not producing the 
product brief yet or the project brief 
yet. But, it's asking me some clarifying 
questions. So, I'm going to show you how 
to use these custom modes also in cursor 
just like I showed you briefly in 
Gemini. So, if you do want to use your 
credits or your LLMs, you can do that in 
Cursor. And actually, right now in 
Cursor, it's great because GPT4.1 is 
free and it works pretty well for what 
we're going to be doing right now. So, 
first of all, in cursor, you do need to 
go to cursor settings, features, and 
make sure that you have the option 
turned on to allow the creation of the 
custom agents. And so, that's what we 
want to make sure is turned on. If that 
is not turned on, you will not see the 
option I'm about to show you here. And 
go to the dropdown. You can see here is 
add custom modes. Now, I already added a 
lot, so I'm just going to show you how 
to do this. So, I'm going to add a dev. 
This is my developer agent. I'm just 
going to leave everything turned on. But 
what's nice about this is you can 
restrict what each of your agents can 
and can't do. But I'm going to go into 
the advanced options. It's hard to type 
very detailed prompts in here because as 
soon as you click away, it goes away. 
First, I'm going to go to my dev. I'm 
going to select everything here. I'm 
going to go in here back to advanced 
options. There's nothing here. I am now 
going to paste that whole prompt into 
here. And now my dev agent is ready to 
go if I want to use the dev agent. So 
I'm going to select the BA. I'm going to 
copy this same 
text and just paste the same prompt in 
here. And what you'll see is just like 
we would see in 
Gemini, this is going to behave the same 
way before actually before actually 
producing the document for us. It's 
going to ask questions. Do you have any 
market research or context to share? 
Now, what this is asking me is did I do 
any deep research? So, in Gemini, as I 
mentioned, you know, depending on the 
level of what you're trying to figure 
out, you might want to use your business 
analyst to do deep research. And I'm 
going to select the deep research mode 
with 2.5 Pro. And then I go back to my 
business analyst. And what is so cool is 
you'll noticed I am now in my gem. It 
has the prompt, but it is ready to do 
the deep research. this deep 
research. We'll come back to it in a bit 
because it's going to take a while. 
Normally, I would just like confirm what 
I wanted to do is what I wanted to do 
because this is going to take 10 to 15 
minutes, but I'm just going to kick off 
the research and we'll come back to this 
in a bit. We do not have any market 
research to share as far as the focus on 
a personal MVP. 
This might be broader later in the 
future, but right now this is just a 
proof of concept for me just as a fun 
little project. So I'm just going to put 
it in the docs folder. And you can see 
it's creating a file here called project 
brief hacker news podcast. Part of the 
prompt in here does have the output 
template. So for example, the PM, it 
knows what the PM template for the PRD 
should look like. Same with the 
architecture and same for the developer 
that produces stories. So you can see 
that's pretty quick, right? And if we 
jump back over to 2.5 Pro, now this is 
going to be a lot more in-depth. This is 
searching for other websites here. It's 
searched, you know, 84 websites, web 
scraping challenges, maybe the 
technologies we're using, similar 
projects, techniques we might want to 
use, looking at some videos. It's 
looking at how to use Ola locally 
play.ai. So, it's checking both their 
pricing because it might help me want to 
keep my cost down because it knows this 
is just like a fun little project for 
me. and it's also probably checking 
their API specs to make sure it's going 
to support what I'm looking for. Uh, 
going back here though, I'm just going 
to accept this. Now, I'm going to go 
through this pretty quickly. I'm not 
going to read through a lot of this in 
detail. I'm just going to assume just 
going to assume that it's correct cuz 
again, this is just about the process. 
But what I would implore you to do is 
like really just read through this. It 
doesn't take a lot of time. And you can 
either talk to the agent or in Gemini, 
you can talk to it or you can just edit 
this and tweak this. I always start new 
chats, but I am going to provide it, you 
know, inside here. So, it has access to 
all of this information right here as an 
input. And now what I'm going to do is 
I'm going to select my project manager. 
Let's create the PRD that is also tuned 
to ask us clarifying questions. So 
again, a lot of questions here, right? 
And you don't necessarily have to answer 
everything here. You can also just say 
make your best guess and yolo it and 
just let it give it the output. But I'm 
going to answer its questions. So there 
is no UI or UX for this 
integration. I definitely want to use 
the 
play.fm. They have a feature 
specifically for generating these 
podcasts. Uh for the output, I am fine 
if the output goes to a local directory. 
Actually, what I would like to have is a 
JSON configuration. We'll just do manual 
testing, no integration or ET, but I do 
want to have unit tests. And for ESLint, 
let's just go with Airbnb. Um, as far as 
technical constraints, yes, I want to 
use the latest node 22 and we will use 
the latest version of TypeScript. On the 
HTTP request, how about we use Axios? 
Uh, for the scraping, we can use 
Cheerio. And um, no preference on the 
CLI utilities. We'll let the architect 
pick that. So, again, I just kind of 
rambled on, right? I love Super Whisper. 
It would have taken me forever to type 
all that up and try to scroll back and 
forth and answer their questions. I was 
just able to keep talking as I was 
reading the questions, give it all my 
answers. And specifically the PRD, the 
architecture and all the stories I put 
in a folder I call AI and my developer 
agent that knows how to iterate on the 
PRD and the architecture, produce the 
stories one at a time. So let's go back 
and see how our deep research is going. 
So, you can tell this is like very 
in-depth, deep research that it's doing. 
It's only 50% here. So, it we're not 
going to wait for this to finish. On the 
other hand, it looks like um our PRD is 
ready to go. Don't just directly copy 
what I have here. Tweak this for your 
own workflow. But let's check out what 
it produced. So, the PRD, it has the 
golden goals and context. It has the 
intro and it has the functional and 
non-functional requirements. This is 
great. It's telling us some of the 
things that we want to use, some of the 
constraints, uh, the features that we 
want to have, the user experience. It's 
all just from the command line testing 
requirements. We want to do just, and I 
like this, it's already given us 
basically, you know, what would be a 
task list in other systems. Um, but it 
has epics and story. So, epic zero, I 
always have it set up, which is like 
what do we need to do manually? Story 
one is project and CLI setup. So, this 
is setting up the initial project. I 
like this. This is what the agent will 
do for us. It's going to set up the 
basic basic story, right? And then we 
are going to fetch the top stories from 
Hacker News. We're going to scrape the 
article content. We're going to retrieve 
the top comments. We're going to use all 
of that to generate a podcast a podcast 
script. Generate the audio for the 
podcast with play.fm. The CLI output and 
error handling. This is something I 
don't like that I need to tweak in the 
rule, but it did add a separate story 
for unit test coverage. I don't like 
this because I want unit test to be 
created with every story. And then what 
I do here is this thing called epic n, 
which is just things beyond the scope of 
our current PRD or MVP ideas that we 
talked about that we might want to do in 
the future. Um, and then here's our 
technology stack. For all just unit 
tests, I want the unit test files to be 
in line next to the file that they are 
testing and not in separate test 
folders. And as far as the epics and 
stories, I do not want a final epic for 
testing. Testing needs to be done with 
each story and a story will not be 
marked as complete until there is 80% 
test coverage and all tests are passing. 
And this should now be smart enough to 
go in and it is. It is going to update 
properly our 
PRD. Coming back over here, we can see 
our deep research is finished. Very long 
document with expense extensive 
research. I mean, this is this is just 
amazing. And I would never suggest 
actually taking this and pasting this 
into your LLM here like this cuz you're 
going to either overblow the context 
window if you're trying to do it in 
cursor or if you're doing in Klein and 
Rue and using your own API keys, you're 
going to go well beyond the context or 
be paying quite a bit in credits. So, 
what I do is I just export this to Docs. 
And this will open up in Google Docs. Is 
I'm going to just switch this to 
thinking mode. I'm going to open the gem 
again. And now I'm going to tell it take 
this link right here. Let's create the 
project brief. The deep research is 
complete. So, kind of the same thing, 
right? This is probably going to be much 
better quality than what we would get 
out of just doing it here in cursor or 
client or something else. But again, 
this is all adaptable and it's just what 
do you need for the type of project that 
you're working on. So, okay. So, our PRD 
is up to date. I have all the other 
agents in here or the custom modes that 
I've set up. So, again, we have our BA, 
we have our PO, we have our architect. 
So the next thing I would do is I would 
go to the architect. I would drag in the 
PRD and I would just say, "Hey, let's 
create the 
architecture." And by the way, you know, 
you can choose if you want to use 
something, you know, something else. You 
can use your more expensive models, you 
can use Gemini, you can use the ones 
that cost 5 cents or, you know, 30 cents 
even per credit if you want to. But 
again, I would save money and just do a 
lot of this in Gemini. But it is really 
nice having it directly create the 
markdown right here. And then after it 
creates the architecture, there will be 
a PRD and an architect in here. And then 
I will use the PO, right? And the PO, 
I'm just going to have it do a final 
final analysis of both the PRD and the 
architecture document. I will select my 
PO. I would add the architecture 
document here also. And I'll just say 
reanalyze the PRD and the architecture. 
Make sure it's all accurate and update 
the PRD to make sure the sequencing and 
all the stories and subtasks are there. 
That would then give us a final updated 
PRD and we're finally ready to start 
doing our development. I'm going to have 
the next video out as soon as possible. 
But in the meantime, please visit the 
repository BMAD method. I set up a 
discussion forum here. So, I would love 
for people to give me their thoughts on 
these prompts and how they're using 
them. Thank you so much, everybody that 
viewed my last video, subscribed to the 
channel, left really encouraging and 
nice words, and said that you learned a 
lot from this. I hope that this gave you 
some concrete information that you can 
start applying yourselves as you learn 
and grow. Again, my name is Brian. This 
is BMAD Code, and I look forward to 
seeing you in the next video. Good.