Hey everybody. You all know if you've 
been watching this channel for some time 
that I am not one for hype and jumping 
on bandwagons and releasing a video the 
day something comes out or calling 
things game changers. But uh I'm going 
to break that today and just say that I 
am so excited to see this new feature 
that just got announced. Look at this. 
Cloud code is getting a brand new 
feature. custom sub agents. Type the 
slash agent commands and we get 
automatic switching and automatic 
selection of agents running by claude 
code. What does this mean? Now claude 
code can take on any persona and do it 
automatically when it needs it. This has 
been one of the things that I have been 
wanting to build into the BMAD method 
for some time. So I am just so excited 
about this. So, I'm going to be working 
on the installer and updating the BMAD 
method to have the install option for 
when you select claude code to set it up 
with these new sub aents. And we'll see 
how it works. This could be a potential 
I guess I'm going to say it. This could 
be a potential game changer. I didn't 
want to say game changer cuz I know 
that's overused and cliche, but I'm just 
really excited about this. You know, I 
made my own claude/ agents command 
because a lot of times I don't want to 
build up the whole heavyweight uh BMED 
method. Sometimes, for example, I'm just 
taking notes and I just want a quick 
agent to chat chat with like I used to 
do with custom GPTs. And so I have a 
slash agent command. I just throw a file 
in a folder. I give that a name and I 
put my agent persona and what it's about 
in there and any information it needs. 
Which, by the way, if you ever just want 
to get, you know, get going yourself and 
if you're ever wondering how I, you 
know, came out with this BMAD method or 
how other people comes up with these 
methods, just try to make your own 
agents. Cuz what are agents really? 
They're they're prompts that you've 
stored. Maybe you maybe you have like a 
really good prompt or a way to, you 
know, work with chatbt or claude, right? 
Not even on coding potentially. 
And then, you know, later on you want to 
do the same thing. And so you're 
repeating that whole prompt. Save that 
prompt, put it in a file, give it in a 
name and a persona. You now have your 
own custom agent made for anything you 
want to do, right? That at the end of 
the day is the core of the BMBA method. 
But now the ability to take these and 
easily create these in Claude is very or 
excuse me in um in claude code is very 
exciting. So what I had done actually up 
until today is I have this lightweight 
just little agent framework that I set 
up, you know, two or three files. I type 
slash agent and then the name of one of 
my agent files in a folder and it loads 
it and I'll scope those. For example, I 
have a whole Obsidian notebook that I 
run out of VS Code and I have folders 
for different projects that I work on. I 
have folders about different subjects 
and I'll have agents that are expert in 
each of those different subjects. So 
when I do slash agents and talk to say 
agent Bob, right, agent Bob knows about 
folder fu and he knows about all those 
files and he knows how to help me with 
that subject. And this has worked great. 
But the magic of what's coming now with 
this built-in/ aents command that I'm so 
excited about is these are all actually 
running in their own subprocesses. Look, 
let's let's check out the uh cloud code 
documentation here. 
Y'all, this is I don't know. I mean, I 
don't know if y'all are as excited about 
this as I am. I'm so excited to get this 
into the BMAD method, but uh yeah, check 
this out here, right? So, like what are 
sub agents? You know, they have a 
specific purpose and expertise area. 
They use their own context window. They 
can be configured with specific tools. 
In other words, you can set them up and 
control which MCPs they have access to 
and this will be enforced which has been 
one of the weaker points of the BMAD 
method. But we've had things like that 
in uh cursor where you can you know 
create the agents from the BMAD motor 
personas for example your PM agent. In 
cursor you could tell it what it is and 
is not allowed to do and what MCP tools 
it can't do. So for example, when you 
set up your PM agent in cursor, you can 
make sure it will never start randomly 
going off the rails and modifying clo uh 
modifying code. But in claude, you know, 
we would do that with with words that we 
put into the agent file, you know, 
before this, but sometimes, you know, it 
might not follow that. But with this 
now, we can actually tell it what it's 
allowed to do, what it's not, and Claude 
will help us enforce that. And we can 
also include custom system prompts that 
guides it guides its behavior. This is 
going to be a new feature that I think 
is going to unlock so many things. But 
let's look at some of these key benefits 
that they're laying out here. Context 
preservation. Each sub agent operates in 
its own context. Preventing pollution of 
the main conversation and keeping it 
focused on highle objectives. 
This is now going to be able, this is 
now going to give us the ability to have 
a true orchestrator that could 
potentially run in the same chat 
instance and then have different agents 
do different things. So imagine you're 
working through your developer cycle and 
you have the scrum master come online, 
generate the story, and then go out of 
scope. It's going to free up that 
context and then the developer comes in 
and starts working on it. and maybe 
you're following TDD. So you could have 
the QA agent actually producing tests, 
switching to the developer, 
implementing, switching back and forth 
until the story is done. They both go 
out of context. You're still in the same 
context window. And now your QA agent 
comes in and we have it actually 
reviewing the code, maybe refactoring 
it, making sure that all the acceptance 
criteria was really met, getting that 
extra level of sophistication that we 
want to ensure that we're producing good 
quality, clean code, and that it's 
actually following our architecture and 
the instructions that the scrum master 
laid out. And then that goes out of 
context and then your scrum master can 
come in and potentially even do a final 
review or pull information that the dev 
and the scrum master left as notes in 
there, excuse me, the dev or the QA, 
take those notes, prepare the next story 
and the cycle repeats. So integrating 
the BMAD method or whatever method you 
use, again you don't have to use the 
BMAD method, but with these sub agents, 
this is going to be so powerful. Imagine 
you're not a software developer. And 
I've been saying this for a long time. 
And the BMAN method is about so much 
more than software development. Product 
managers and project managers, they use 
it for planning road maps or creating 
big picture visions. Um I talked about 
in the last video uh one of my great 
supporters that I'm so thankful for 
again, Emanuel, a clinical psychologist 
using it to help him with clinical 
psychology, nothing to do with software 
development. I know people that are 
using the concepts of creating these 
small agents to help them with their 
business, help them run their lives. 
It's like using chatbt but programming 
it with knowledge and understanding at 
the end of the day creating your own 
custom agents. And now this gives us a 
much better way to do it in cloud code. 
So context preservation is a huge one. 
Specialized expertise. If you've been 
using the BMAD method or anything I've 
just been talking about, of course you 
understand what that means. 
Flexible permissions. I just mentioned 
that. That's going to be a great thing 
because now we can scope different 
agents to only do certain different 
things. Very exciting. And reusability 
sub agents can be used across different 
projects and shared with the team for 
consistent workflows. This is a huge one 
and this is going to be a big and 
factful change to BMAD method when 
you're using the clawed version of the 
installation. So big changes coming 
soon. I can't wait to see what this is 
capable of. I'm just learning about this 
right now. I just heard about this a 
little bit ago. Again, I know this is 
probably seeming like a little bit too 
much hype and being rushed out and I 
don't know how well this is going to 
work, but if this is any like anything 
like what I've seen from some of the 
other frameworks in the past that have 
had sub agents, I know this is going to 
be a gamecher. And just with the quality 
of cloud code in general and what it's 
able to do, you know, with its own 
internal tasking and it already had, you 
know, subprocesses where it could shard 
and do things in parallel and not 
pollute the context. This is basically 
building on top of that, but now giving 
us the ability to inject those agents 
and keep them separate and not polluting 
the main context. So this opens up the 
door again to real parent orchestration 
of different agents. Automatic 
switching, automatically loading them 
when they're needed, controlling what 
tools they do and do not have access to. 
So exciting. So exciting. Everybody, I 
encourage everybody if you're using 
Cloud Code, check out the docs here and 
start trying to use this agent mode. 
Just slash agents. And what's really 
cool, too, is if you just want to 
prototype an agent, you it's it's so 
easy. You just type / agents and just 
describe the agent you want and it will 
create the agent file for you. This is 
almost like autogenerating rules and 
cursor, right? Or some of the other 
idees and then you can go in there and 
tweak it just like we do with rules in 
other systems. Create the rules, keep it 
simple, see what works, see what doesn't 
work, and then tweak the file and try it 
again. Very exciting, guys. This is this 
is unexpected. I did not even know that 
this was coming out yesterday today. I 
don't know if they've been talking about 
this, but this just kind of fell out of 
nowhere. Uh, some people in the Discord 
community let me know about this and I 
was just so excited to reach out and see 
this. I went in, I updated Claw Code, 
and you can see right here when you 
update, here's the message about it. 
It's giving you instructions how to use 
it. So, have fun with this everybody. I 
look forward to hearing how people are 
using this and look for big changes with 
the claude code version of the BMAD 
installer very soon as we work hard in 
the community to get this incorporated 
and worked into this amazing system. 
Thank you everybody. My name is Brian. 
This is BMAD code. I know this was a 
little bit more hype than normal, but 
please uh you know just just understand 
that I'm just very excited about this 
and I wanted to share this with all of 
you. So enjoy and we will see you next 
time here on BMAD Code.