Hey everybody, today my friends is a 
celebration. Thank you so much for 
joining me. We are celebrating almost 6 
months since B1 of the BMAD method 
released. 
20,000 people have subscribed to the 
channel. Nearly 18,000 stars on GitHub 
and this project is still in its 
infancy. It is growing bigger and faster 
thanks to many of you in the community. 
Two months ago, I released the V4 master 
class of the BMAD method, and over a 
100,000 people have watched and have 
started using the BMAD method. Since 
this came out, I have had the 
opportunity to meet so many of you in 
the community Discord. The community 
around the BMAD method is amazing. I 
welcome you to join. It's a helpful, 
inclusive community where we're learning 
and growing from each other. It's 
totally free and you can get all the 
help and support you need in using the 
BMAD method. But in six months, a lot 
has changed. We have gone through four 
major versions. I and the community have 
been hard at work on what was going to 
be V5, but now I am proud to announce is 
out in alpha, the V6 version of the BMAD 
method. The BMAD method is bigger and 
stronger than ever, and it is evolving 
as fast as the agentic tooling landscape 
is. So, thank you everybody that has 
joined this revolution. And if you're 
new to the BMAD method, now is a great 
time to be joining. In the next week or 
two, the full beta release of V6 will be 
available for early adopters. The alpha 
release right now, it's on a branch, and 
if you would like to help test, find 
bugs, work it out, and affect the future 
of the BMAD method, you can actually 
help with the alpha branch. and I'll 
show you at the end of this video how to 
jump in and get started with that. This 
is such a significant release that 
there's actually going to be a series of 
videos coming about many of the new 
features because there's so much here 
today. I just want to tell you about a 
few of those though. But before I do, I 
just want to thank everybody that is 
supported me, supported the channel, and 
supported the great community that is 
helping build the BMED method. So many 
of you have already subscribed and 
reached out and donated on Buy Me a 
Coffee and I cannot thank you enough. 
That support helps pay for tooling and 
the resources and the countless hours 
that I put into this outside of my day 
job. So, thank you everybody for your 
support. For the 20,000 of you that have 
already subscribed to the channel, thank 
you. If you have not, please do it so 
you know when new videos are coming out. 
Now that V6 is almost ready for final 
release, I will be back to doing more 
frequent videos. So, please stay tuned 
to the channel and we'll be covering a 
lot of great topics related to the BMED 
method and beyond. What is it that I am 
so excited about here in V6? Well, I'm 
going to share with you five of the many 
things that are changing in V6. The BMED 
method originally started as a simple 
way to do Agentic AI flows from product 
ideation through having your developer 
agents implement the code. We pioneered 
context engineering and prompt 
engineering to another level that nobody 
was doing 6 months ago when people were 
still trying to just do basic vibe 
coding. We were already ahead of the 
curve. Over the six months in multiple 
versions, I've learned a lot. And one of 
the biggest issues was with V4 was that 
it was not clear how to use it 
necessarily with brownfield and it was 
not which is an existing project or an 
existing codebase and also it seemed 
like it was very one-sizefits-all. Since 
the BMAD released there's been Curo code 
from AWS that's come out and GitHub has 
released their own spec engineering. 
There's also a lot of other ones out 
there, right? But they're all targeted 
towards very small projects. One of the 
key introductions with V6 is we will now 
be scale adaptive. What does that mean? 
Well, when you talk to the agent at the 
beginning of the workflow, it's going to 
figure out the size and scope of your 
project and what your real ambition is. 
Are you trying to build a huge 
enterprise multi-ervice 
micros service distributed architecture 
or are you trying to patch a band-aid 
onto an existing project? The BMAD 
method with V6 is going to scale adapt 
and this is the first framework to do 
that to your specific needs and based on 
that it'll put you through different 
workflows. Whether you need to do a 
heavyweight PRD or do you just need to 
do a tech spec to spec engineer a simple 
change into an existing codebase, it's 
going to adapt and transform and do it 
all for you. Excuse me, not for you, but 
with you. Because that is the other 
thing that the BMAT method has always 
stood for. This is facilitation of the 
agents working with you to get the best 
out of you, but also to help you get the 
best out of the agents. Aside from the 
scale adaptive framework, the core 
itself is changing. In V4, we called the 
BMAD method the BMAD core. But the BMAD 
method is the agile AI flow. But the 
BMAD core is an engine that can run so 
many different types of workflows. In 
V4, many people started creating 
expansion packs. And these were not even 
related to the realm of software 
development. creative writing expansion 
packs, analysis expansion packs, data 
science, different types of applications 
such as game development. We're 
rebranding these modules. And the BBED 
method itself is actually a module that 
runs on top of the core. So the core is 
going to be a tightly controlled engine 
that can basically run anything. If you 
think the BMAD method should be 
different or you want to make it your 
own drastically, you could even make 
your own module on top of the core just 
as powerful or maybe even better than 
the BMAD method. you know, so many 
people reaching out to me. One thing 
that I learned since V4 really came out 
and especially the master class is just 
how many nonsoftware developers have 
found this and have found so much value 
out of the BMAD method by removing the 
core from the method and making the BMAD 
method a module. The core is now super 
powerful allowing any type of workflow. 
I've talked to product managers. I've 
talked to designers. And I've talked to 
people in every aspect of business that 
are using the BMAD method for everything 
but software development. It has become 
so much more. And so, one of the biggest 
things that I'm so excited about is 
segregating this core and really 
embracing the idea of all of these 
different modules. All of these other 
modules are now going to be available 
and the community can contribute them. 
And with V6, it'll be much easier for 
the community to actually contribute and 
share modules with you. So whether it 
might be therapy, creative writing, data 
science, anything that you can imagine 
that can be facilitated with an AI agent 
to help get the best out of you or help 
you along the way, the BMAD core will 
support it. Another thing that I never 
expected when the BMAD method started 
growing is just how much of a global 
phenomenon this will become. So I want 
to thank you everybody from around the 
world that has made the BMAD method what 
it is and continues to help it grow. One 
of the biggest requests I got was for 
localization and agent customization. 
And I am happy to announce with V6 the 
official release of fully customizable 
agents and full language override. What 
what does this mean? Well, now with the 
BMAD method, when you install it is 
going to ask you what language you 
prefer, and it will apply that to all of 
the agents. So, if you would like the 
agents to communicate with you in French 
or Chinese or Japanese or German or 
Spanish or any of the many languages 
that so many of you have reached out to, 
it will now support this. The BMAD core 
is not just for software developers. 
This applies to all modules which were 
again called expansion packs in the 
past. So with any new modules with V6 
when they install you will be able to 
through the core set your language 
preference and the agents will 
communicate in your preferred language. 
Additionally I mentioned the ability to 
customize agents and this is so 
exciting. Maybe you don't want to fully 
create your own new module but you just 
want to change the names of the agents 
or maybe you want to give them a 
slightly different personality. If you 
want a pirate that curses and calls you 
names, you can now do that. If you want 
a friendly analyst that can help you 
figure out your project and figure out 
your problems, you can now customize 
that. Also, all of that is fully 
customizable with the new agent 
customization framework. And what is so 
great about this is as updates come for 
the BMAD method, it will not, excuse me, 
for the BMAD core or any of the modules, 
it will not blow away your changes to 
the agent customizations. This is a huge 
game changer and I'm so excited to see 
how people are going to use this. Number 
four is the different project types now 
supported in the BMED method module. 
This is a gamecher. I mentioned before 
scale adaptive where the architecture 
and the PRD and the whole workflow will 
adapt to your scale. Well, with project 
types, this also takes it to a whole 
other level. And as V6 evolves, more and 
more project types will be integrated, 
including reference architectures. What 
do project types do? Well, when you're 
planning your PRD, for example, let's 
say instead of a business application or 
a web application, maybe you're just 
creating a website. Maybe it's a 
salesfunnel website or a personal vanity 
page or maybe you want to create a 
console application or maybe you want to 
create a video game or maybe you're 
doing device drivers or embedded 
hardware. By knowing and understanding 
these project types and what you're 
building, the framework will now evolve 
not only in size and scale, but also in 
the types of questions it asks you and 
embeds into the PRDS and architecture 
that we are creating. If you're doing a 
game, instead of creating a PRD, it's 
going to walk you through creating a GDD 
or a game development design document. 
And you can actually use the new game 
agents that are built into the BMAD 
method if you choose. What's really cool 
about this also is there's over 50 game 
types supported just in the just in the 
GDD creation. So it will work with you 
and depending on what type of game you 
are creating, it will help you plan out 
the specifics that your type of game 
needs. Nothing I have seen comes close 
to what we are going to be releasing 
just in the realm of game development 
with V6. But additionally, this scales 
to almost every project type. And as the 
V6 evolves beyond alpha, we'll be seeing 
more and more of this. This is going to 
be truly powerful and gamechanging. And 
when you get to the architecture, the 
architecture is also going to be built 
around the type of project you are 
building. So, no longer like in V4 is it 
a one-sizefits-all architecture with all 
the same sections. It is going to inject 
exactly what you need. And the nice 
thing about V6 is no more need to shard 
your documents. I'm going to do a whole 
video on this really soon about the 
whole new BMAD method workflow and why 
this is not necessary. But trust me, 
you're going to love it because now the 
BMAD method works with the documents as 
you bring them and not necessarily a 
very rigid structure that you need to 
try to shoehorn your project into. It's 
it's groundbreaking. It's going to 
change your life if you are a user of 
the BMED method module. I think you're 
going to love it. All right, before I 
get to number five, I actually have 4.5. 
Number 4.5 is reference architectures. 
And this is a new thing that's coming. 
So I just talked about the different 
project types. Post V5 release. We are 
going to open up community contribution 
to reference architectures. So what this 
means is let's say you want to build a 
green field project from scratch, but 
you're not too opinionated on all of the 
choices it makes. These reference 
architectures are going to speed up your 
delivery from beginning to end, making 
sensible choices for the type of project 
that you want to build to actually get 
you to your MVP or your actual 
deliverable secure project and 
architecture even quicker. I'm so 
excited about this and the ability for 
the community to contribute reference 
architectures I think is going to be one 
of the most exciting things to come with 
the BMAD method. Now, let's get to 
number five. Number five, I am so 
excited about. You are amazing. These 
agents are technologically amazing, but 
without you, they're just machines that 
give you average slop. But by 
facilitating and working and pulling the 
best out of you and making you better, 
you and the agent rise up together in 
the core reflective engine is what is 
going to power this. And so this gets me 
to number five, the bomb. And literally 
I am calling it the bomb or the BMAD 
method builder. The BMAD method builder 
is a new module just like the BMAD 
method is a module. This module is going 
to help you build your own workflows, 
your own agents and even your own 
modules. Like I said, if you want to 
come up with your own vision of what the 
BMAD method could be, totally separate, 
you can build a whole new powerful 
module with the help of the BMAD builder 
agent and workflow process. It's 
amazing. It's going to guide you through 
and it's going to build your own modules 
that you can then share with the 
community or use for your own personal 
use. If you want to start experimenting 
with the bomb, you can even today. What 
can you do with the BMAD builder? Well, 
I already said you can build modules 
which were expansion packs before. So, 
if you want to author your own data 
science or creative writing or a 
specific type of business or workflow, 
you can do this with module creation 
from the BMAD builder. The agent will 
walk you through it just like all of the 
other facilitations works. It's going to 
figure out exactly what you need. It can 
even do brainstorming. You can create a 
module brief and it will help you build 
your dream. But there's so much more. 
What if you don't need a full powered 
workflow and instead you just want to 
design some tiny agents? Well, with this 
new BMED V6 release, there are actually 
multiple agent types supported. There's 
actually three levels of agents. There 
are agents that can be put into the 
workflows. 
There are agents that work with other 
files and there are now I'm so excited 
to announce tiny BMAD agents. These are 
standalone single file agents that you 
can create and easily compile to work on 
their own to help you with oneoff or 
interesting things. If you want to build 
um an agent friend or an agent helper or 
an agent that can help you do very 
specific one-off tasks, the agent 
builder will help you do all of this. 
It's going to be so much fun and 
exciting and I can't wait to see and 
hear what the community does with this. 
Whether you want to build learning 
systems, training systems, coaches for 
yourself, coaches to help other or any 
kind of workflow or process or creative 
endeavor, you'll be able to do it with 
the bomb. The bomb is the bomb has 
already dropped. The alpha bomb has 
dropped, but the bigger bomb will be 
released with the full V6 release in the 
coming weeks. 
All right, so if you want to be an early 
tester and help me with the alpha 
release, maybe contribute ideas or give 
feedback if something's not working 
right, I'm going to show you how to set 
up the alpha branch and get going. 
Whether you want to test out the bomb or 
the BMAD method or the new CIS which is 
a whole other module that I have not 
talked about yet along with many of the 
other community modules that will be 
coming even with the alpha. Let's jump 
right into it. So first of all here on 
the BMED method you can see that we were 
on we are on the main branch and uh 
really quick while you're here I do want 
to show you if you would like to click 
star up here if you have not already log 
into GitHub. This helps the project get 
noticed and it will also help you keep 
aware as new version updates come from 
the BMAD method, especially with this 
alpha release where changes are 
happening frequently. 
Now, normally if you come down here, 
this is the normal release 4.44. Oh, and 
by the way, you can click here to 
support the project. Anything you donate 
is much appreciated. But if you come 
down here, the BMAD method, you can see 
there is a link right here to V6 alpha. 
You can click this here. You can also 
come to this dropdown and just select V6 
alpha right here. And now this will give 
you more information about V6 if you're 
going to try out the alpha. I do 
recommend reading through a lot of this 
information. It's a lot of information, 
but it's definitely worth reading about. 
I have opened up a terminal and I'm just 
at my home directory. So whether you're 
on Mac, Linux, or Windows, open up a 
terminal. 
I'm going to make a new directory, 
assuming I have not done anything else. 
I like to keep all of my projects in a 
local folder, but for right now, I'm 
just going to call it demo, but I would 
normally call this dev. So I'm going to 
make a demo folder, and then I'm going 
to just switch into demo. 
And now that I'm in demo, I'm going to 
follow these instructions that we saw. 
So there's multiple steps, but we can 
also just do this and this will 
automatically switch us to the V6 alpha 
version of the BMAD method. When we 
clone the project, there is no npxit 
installer set up right now. We have 
cloned the whole BMAD method with the 
BMAD core and the bomb into a folder 
called BMAD method. So if we go to BMED 
method 
npm install, this does assume that 
you've installed Node already. 
Um, but if you've been using the BMED 
method, you've already installed Node. 
If not, you will want to first install 
Node.js, you can go to their website and 
they have download instructions and 
install instru instructions for Windows, 
Linux, and Mac. Okay. So when we did 
that now if I do ls again you can see 
that we should have a folder here. We 
can see that we have a node modules. So 
that is where all the dependencies for 
the project get installed. So we can 
actually run the installer. So now let's 
run the installer. And this is very 
simple. All you need to do is type npm 
run install colon bad. This is very 
similar to the npx installer you 
probably used with before. And then this 
is going to load first the core and we 
are not going to take this default 
installation location. Instead I'm going 
to create a new directory. So I'm going 
to do dot dot slash which means go down 
one level to where we were. So this will 
go back to the demo folder and then I'm 
going to say create a new directory 
called I'm just going to call it project 
one for now. Would you like to create 
project one? I will say yes. Now, this 
new installer has a lot more questions 
than there were in the past because this 
is about a lot of the optimization or 
excuse me, the customization you can do 
with the BMAD method. So, first it's 
going to ask you your name. So, I would 
type something other than BMAD user 
unless you always want it to annoyingly 
call you BMAD user. But for me, I like 
to be called BMAD. So, that is what I 
will use. Now, I'm going to keep this in 
English, but you can type in Spanish for 
example if you like or pirate. You can 
even do pirate speak here. 
And I'm just going to keep it as 
English. I'll keep it as the default. 
And if you like the default, you can 
just hit enter. 
And I'm going to have docs be the 
default output location. Now here right 
now with the alpha, it's just showing 
three options. If you want to try out 
the bomb, you can select this first 
option. And you can turn off the other 
options if you like. If you only want to 
practice with building tiny agents, 
agents and workflows or your own custom 
modules, you might want to only install 
the builder, but I would still recommend 
installing the other two just so you can 
see examples of what other modules look 
like. So, we'll install all three. Where 
do custom agents get created? So, this 
is a question that will only be asked if 
you selected the bomb. So, this is one 
nice new thing with the installer is it 
will ask you specific questions about 
the module you build. And when you build 
your own module, by the way, you can 
also set up questions that you can ask 
other users that are using your module. 
So it will use those personalizations 
when they're running your module. So 
let's just accept the defaults here. And 
we are just going to call this my 
project for now. Docs is fine. Docs and 
stories. And now a future V6 improvement 
will be the ability to select different 
MCP tools that will then be ingrained 
into the agent workflows. This is still 
coming soon, but this will be part of 
the official release in a few weeks. And 
then finally, you do want to select 
which IDE or tool you're using. I love 
Cloud Code, so I will be using Cloud 
Code, but you can see these other 
options here are also supported. This is 
a multi select so you can select 
multiple but I am just going to select 
only cloud code. You can up and down 
through the list to see what else is 
available and more are always being 
added as new tools and models come out. 
Now this is a new feature depending on 
which IDE or tool you selected it will 
offer you additional options. So if you 
select cloud code, it is now going to 
ask you if you want to install sub 
aents, which is one of the other 
exciting new features of V6 that's being 
worked out and will soon be part of the 
core release. Sub aents and hooks. So 
we'll say yes to install all sub aents. 
We're going to install them to the 
project level. And that's it. Now that 
might have seemed like a lot because I 
was talking, but honestly, you answer a 
few questions, you go through it, and 
now you're done. So now if we go to that 
new folder that we created which was 
project one tab. 
Now BMAD is the folder that it installs 
everything to. You don't want to 
actually go into the BMAD folder. You 
want to stay at your project folder. So 
for example if this were a software 
application you would go to the root of 
the software application. So now I'm 
just going to start VS Code from here 
and so we can actually see what was 
installed. So let me make this bigger 
for you to see. Clog. Start cloud. 
And now you can see that all the BMAD 
agents are here grouped by modules. 
Here's all your familiar BMAD method 
agents such as the analyst, the product 
manager, the dev. As I mentioned, 
there's now some new game assets in here 
also. And there's also a new test 
enterprise architect replacing the QA 
agent. So let's just see if we can load 
the product manager, 
which we can. So we just hit enter. And 
now this will load the product manager. 
And this will speak to us. And it should 
remember our name from the install. So 
let's see if it greets it. Greets us. 
And it did. And so it says, "Hello, 
BMBA. I am John, your product manager." 
And then it gives us the list of things 
it can do. So here we go, folks. This is 
just meant to be a very quick video. 
Details on everything I talked about and 
so much more, including the inclusion of 
sub agents, which so many have asked 
for, is coming up in future videos over 
the next few weeks as we get closer and 
closer to this exciting, monumentous 
monumentous official V6 release. Thank 
you so much everybody. Please like and 
subscribe. Share this with your friends 
and co-workers and we'll see you very 
soon.