Everybody, my name is Brian. People call 
me BMED. You know, I've been a engineer 
in the software engineering space for 
over 25 years. And it's just crazy now 
in this past year or two how fast things 
are changing. Just since my last video 
two weeks ago, another new hot term came 
out. If you remember my last video, I 
was talking about how the newest trend 
was context engineering and how that was 
possibly invalidating the BMAD method, 
but it actually turned out to be context 
engineering was just another name for 
something we have been doing for the 
last 3 or 4 months with the BMAD method. 
And now that's all changed again because 
now the hottest new thing is spec 
engineering. So we're going to be 
looking at what spec engineering is and 
see if that is a replacement for the 
BMAD method. But first, I got to give a 
big shout out to Hamza over at AI Labs 
for also in this last few weeks while 
everything else crazy is going on in the 
industry plucked out and noticed the 
BMAD method and how impactful it is. He 
did a video on the BMAD method and that 
brought a lot of you over here. So, if 
you are here because you heard about 
this on Hamza's channel over at AI Labs, 
I want to thank you and welcome you to 
this uh open and welcoming community. I 
just wanted to give a huge shout out and 
thank you again to Hamza. If you pay 
attention to the changes every week, 
you're going to think what you're doing 
is obsolete. You know, the BMED method, 
we started this a few months ago. It's 
been going strong. It's been improving 
and there's a great community behind it, 
building it up. And a few weeks ago, we 
heard about context engineering and we 
realized, what was that? That's exactly 
what we've been doing with the BMED 
method, learning how to use the AI 
agents to produce documentation and 
context to give to the developer agents 
to make sure that they can stay on the 
rails with just the exact context that 
they need. So they are building in the 
right place with the right standards, 
not making things up and changing things 
along the way. And then last week 
another new tool came out, Kurode. And 
Kuri Code introduced spec engineering to 
the world or specd driven development. 
When I heard that, I thought they were 
releasing a TDD tool, but it turns out 
they were talking about specifications. 
What are specifications? They're 
blueprints. You might call them a 
product requirements document or an 
architecture document. This sounds very 
familiar, doesn't it? Well, it does 
because again, another new thing 
disrupting the industry, brand new, is 
something we have been doing for months 
called the BMAD method. It's so exciting 
and so validating to know that we are 
all using this amazing framework thought 
framework to do agiledriven development 
and basically the big companies like AWS 
are now validating what we've been doing 
all along. So I think we're doing 
something right here and we continue to 
make it better and better. But the BMAD 
method has so much more. And if you're 
new here, I just want to quickly recap 
some of those amazing features that the 
BMAD method offers. The BMAD method is 
not vibe coding, first of all. So, if 
you're here for just something where you 
can just throw out your idea and have it 
spit out your golden app at the end, the 
BMAD method, honestly, is not going to 
be for you. What is the BMAD method? 
It's a framework of multiple agents that 
can help you every step of the way from 
just a seed of an idea all the way to 
product delivery. It starts with 
brainstorming. Maybe you don't even know 
what you want to do. You can talk to an 
agent and do brainstorming, but it's not 
just following a script. It has science 
and psychologybacked 
techniques baked into the agent 
framework to work with you back and 
forth and produce ideas that you may not 
come up with on your own or an agent may 
not come up with. And that is really the 
theme of the whole BMAD method. You're 
not checking your brain at the door and 
saying, "Agent, do it for me." And the 
agent is not making you do it all for 
them. you really are working together. 
That's why there is this agile team of 
agents that you work back and forth with 
as a team to produce something 
holistically better than what each of 
you could do on your own. So that's 
brainstorming, right? And then you can 
work with the PM to produce your PRD. 
You can produce an architecture. But 
while you're working through all these 
documents, these are so much more than 
just specs like you'll see in Curo Code 
where it's going to kind of guide you 
along step by step and give you some 
boilerplate output or a form. These 
templates that are built into the BMED 
method are infused with agentic 
instructions to program the AI to work 
with you and actually ask you for 
information or brainstorm back and forth 
with you every step of the way. It also 
implements advanced elicitation. So, as 
you're completing different sections of 
the documents, you don't have to just 
take the average generic thing that the 
agent gives you at that time. Because if 
you just take always what the LLM tells 
you on the first goound, no matter what 
you're doing with the LLMs or these 
agents, you're going to get sometimes 
just an average response. You can tell 
it to think harder and it might give you 
a little bit better answer, but you're 
still getting kind of average responses. 
So, what we built in is an advanced 
prompting technique called advanced 
elicitation, which is actually broken 
down to about 30 different techniques 
that you can use with different sections 
of the documents that you're working on 
to push the agents to think harder, to 
brainstorm, to come up with 
alternatives, to simulate multiple 
personalities, hashing it out, to do 
what if analysis, yes and analysis. 
There's, like I said, 20 or 30 different 
techniques in there. They're built in. 
They will all be pulled out and used at 
the right time. And you can use that to 
further push the LLM to give you amazing 
results. So, beyond that though, what 
else does the BMAD method offer? Well, 
it offers expansion packs. As a matter 
of fact, I want to give a shout out to 
Pinky D, one of the first contributors 
of an expansion pack from the community. 
It is a Unity 2D game framework. So you 
can take this expansion pack and if you 
want to use Unity and build a 2D game, 
this will apply the BMAD method with its 
own suite of agents tailored to game 
development. And that is the beauty of 
the BMED method. This whole thing is 
meant to be almost a thought framework, 
if you will, but also a way for you to 
expand it with your own expansion packs. 
Let me pause here for a second and give 
a big shout out to people that have 
recently bought me a coffee. It really 
means a lot to me. And I especially want 
to call out somebody on there. I'm going 
to be doing an interview with them in 
the future. His name is Emanuel. He's a 
clinical psychologist and he is using 
the BMED method not even for software 
development and it is revolutionizing 
the way he works. And so many other 
people in the community have also 
reached out to me and told me very 
similar stories. So the BMAD method you 
can use it in Gemini gems or in chat GPT 
custom GPTs or clawed code use it 
locally. It can impact every aspect of 
your life and work and is so much more 
than just getting an agent to build some 
software for you. So really take the 
time to explore it and see what else it 
can do for you. It really is truly an 
amazing technique to apply. But again, 
thank you to everybody that bought me a 
coffee. It really does mean a lot. And 
while I'm doing some shout outs, I also 
want to shout out the Discord community 
and especially the people in the Discord 
community helping there. You know, if 
you come in, there's more than 2,000 
people in there. I cannot respond to 
everybody that comes in there all the 
time. We have such a great community. 
There's so many great people in there 
just willing to help everybody in the 
community get started, get going. The 
community is building and growing, 
collaborating, talking about what the 
best agent frameworks are, what are the 
tools, how are we using these tools, how 
how do we use the BMAD method in the 
brown field or in legacy projects, how 
do we use it in the green field? Come to 
the community, hash it out. So many 
people are sharing great techniques and 
ideas that it can really be a gamecher 
for you. So, thank you to everybody in 
the community. And I just want to say 
here we are at now almost 7,500 
subscribers. I was going to do a video 
at 5,000, but the channel is growing so 
fast because so many of you are excited 
about the BMAD method and coming on 
board that I'm now doing a thank you. We 
are almost at 7,500 subscribers. So, 
thank you to all of you. And if you 
haven't subscribed yet, why not? It's 
it's free and you'll know when new 
videos are coming out. But if nothing 
else, please click like on this video. 
If you are doing specri development with 
or without the BMAD method or if you've 
tried Kuro Code, I would love to know, 
you know, what you think of it. uh leave 
a comment down in the in the comment 
section. I also want to give a shout out 
to Appy Dave. Happy Dave did an amazing 
video on his YouTube channel. I'll leave 
a link right here. And in the video, he 
showed how to add features into the BMAD 
method. He added a retrospective feature 
that takes Epics when they're done. It 
incorporates the whole team and it runs 
a full team retrospective and it is 
amazing the results that it produces. 
So, we will be actually working that 
into the BMAD method very soon. And that 
just shows that this community is doing 
so many amazing things with us, things 
that I haven't even thought of. So, it 
keeps getting better and better. And 
very soon, V5 of the BMAD method will be 
coming out with some amazing, 
groundbreaking new changes to make it 
easier and more powerful for your 
software development endeavors or any 
aspect of your life that you might want 
to use the BMAD method for. So, thank 
you, Happy Dave. check out his channel 
and uh we'll probably be doing more with 
Happy Dave here in the future. Very 
excited to collaborate with him and also 
with Hamza over at AI Labs. Okay. And 
coming up next on the channel, we are 
going to be doing the full walkthrough 
with Claude Code. So, I'm going to have 
a very simple tutorial. If you've been 
waiting for the Claude Code video on how 
to get set up or started with the BMAD 
method, that is coming very, very soon. 
And so, thank you everybody again. Like 
and subscribe to the channel and we'll 
see you next time.