Since my last video, a lot has changed with the BMAD method. It has been simplified, an installer has been added, 
and there's a lot of exciting new features and improvements. I'm going to walk through step by step, not going to 
skip anything, and I'm going to show you how to get the BMAD method installed and set up in your IDE of choice. There's a 
lot of great contributors here to the BMAD method. Um, I want to thank Kayan, Dave, Bacon, Pants, Sweet Roll, and 
Sebastian, and so many of you. There's too many to name, but so many people have been contributing not only by 
contributing codes here, but by participating in the discussions and also raising issues, helping me notice 
problems so I can fix them and help make the BMAD method better and better. A lot of the feedback that I got from V3 was 
that it was still a little bit hard to understand how to install and get everything going. So, I wanted to make 
this rock solid and super simple. And by the way, let me say the installer for V4 now will also do upgrades. So as new 
versions of V4 come out or V5 or wherever this goes, the installer will 
now will now also offer to upgrade for you. So if you are in the middle of a project and new enhancements come out in 
the V4 method of the BMAD method, it will actually non-breaking update your 
project and if you've customized anything, it will actually back it up for you or warn you or allow you to 
overwrite it. It will give you all these choices in a very simple to use installer. I'm going to be showing all of that to you today. But first, I want 
to show you how you can just get started in one minute without doing anything else. And that is come to the BMAD 
method. Here, I'll leave a link in the description. Go to the disc folder here. The disc folder is where all of the web 
bundles are stored. A web bundle is basically all of the assets to get you going so you can use Gemini Gems or Chat 
GBT or any of the other web LLMs and start talking with the full team of 
agents that will help you build your product or plan your project. 
Come to the disc folder, go to teams, and just click on team full stack. Now, this is a txt file. Download this file 
that's going to be in my downloads folder. I'm going to go into Gemini. We're going to create a new gem here. 
So, we're going to go to explore gems, and we're going to create the BMAD master agent orchestrator for a full 
stack team. So, we're going to give this a nice emoji so we can recognize it. So, 
let's just give it this one here. And we will call this BMAD. And I'm going to call it full stack team or just FST. 
What the full stack team means is this is a team of agents that will help you plan and develop a full stack web 
application which means it has a front end and a backend. If you don't need a front end, you can choose one of the 
other teams from this disc folder. Uh here is team no UI. So this is just 
for backend or service projects. And then there's team all. If you really want all 10 agents that are part of the 
core system, then you can use team all. But again, we're just going to go with team full stack and we are going to 
click this plus button down here and we are just going to upload a file. And what are we going to upload? We're going to upload what we just downloaded. You 
can see I've downloaded it here a few times. And we will see that that is now valid 
because it shows the icon next to the txt file. And then in here in the instructions, I'm just going to paste. 
And you can also get this out of the readme. But the nice thing now with V4 
is everything is self-contained in one single file that you need to upload. You never need to upload more than one file 
to get this going. In V3 there was six files that you had to upload for each agent. It's all now self-contained 
including the orchestrator. So now you only need one command here. All you need to do is click save. Wait for this. And 
now the gem BMED FST has been created and we can start chatting with it. So now we'll go here and we'll click chat. 
Now, if you don't know what to do with this, I will just show you really quick. Just think of it as if you were talking to me or I'm talking to you. And the 
first thing I would say to you is hello. So, I'm just going to greet BMAD here and tell it oh, but it's loading all of 
this information. And I would, you know, recommend that you read this the first time you use it and it's going to tell 
you some of the things that it can do. But most importantly, if you don't know what this can really do, you can just 
press star help here. Now, you can go back to the V3 video that I did uh about 
three weeks ago. I'll post the link right here. And this goes into a lot of detail about how to theoretically use 
the BMAD method, which agents to use, how to go through the workflow. But the BMAD agent itself here, which is now 
called the BMAD orchestrator in this gem, is going to be much more helpful and tell you all of the different things 
it can do. And it will also tell you which agents are available here in the bundle and how to access them. So, if 
you want to start talking to the business analyst, you can just run that command there and on and on. But there's 
one more key feature in here that I want to show you that is going to be so helpful for you now with V4. And that is 
just do star and then we're going to say KB- mode. Now, this is going to load the 
full knowledge base that the BMAD method or the BMAD orchestrator has access to. 
And this is going to be your guide. So you can keep this open in the web browser and when you're not sure what to 
do, whether you're in the IDE or in the web here, this will give you advice. So 
it's going to tell you just some of the things that it can talk to you about, some of the options, how to get started, 
and it's, you know, going to give you a lot of information here. But once this is done, you can actually have a 
discussion with it and ask it about any of this stuff. But this is going to show you how to get started with the method, 
how to use different web idees, what the purposes of the different core agents are, and it goes on and on. But again, 
that is not the extent of the information. You can actually you can actually ask it very specific things. 
For example, how do I get started in cursor? 
So here it's going to show you and this is what I'm actually about to demonstrate also. So, you know what? 
This is enough of the web agent. Go back and watch video part three on the V3 of the BMAD method, and it goes over a lot 
more detail in how to use WebGemini. But let's actually get to installing this so you can use this in your IDE. 
All right. And as promised, I'm going to do this from scratch with nothing installed whatsoever already. So, you 
can use npx or you can use npm to install the BMAD method. 
Now, npm, npx, that is node. And don't worry if your project is, you know, 
python or car or ruby or whatever it is, C++, it doesn't matter. The node is only 
used for the installer to copy assets and configure them properly for your project. But you are going to need node 
20 installed just to have access to the installer. First of all, if you come to the uh BMAD method GitHub, you will 
notice that it does show the version here and it also shows this node requirement. Again, this is just for the installer. 
You saw in the web, we didn't have to use node, obviously. We just downloaded and copied the the file that we wanted 
to use. And you know, there are ways to also just copy the files over. But I highly recommend using this installer. 
By the way, we do have a Discord community. I'll mention that again. So, you can click here and you can actually join our Discord Discord community. If 
you have questions, I'm on there and many other people are on there quite frequently and we will be able to help 
you out and get going with your own projects or if you're having issues or having trouble understanding something in the BMAD method or even if you have 
feedback. Again, please join the Discord community. We'd love to see you in there. But what I'm going to do right 
now is I'm going to show you two ways to get started with the BMAD method. And 
the first one does not even require cloning this repository. If you don't have Node installed, whether you're on 
Windows, Mac, or Linux, you can just Google Node and download it. There's installers. It'll get you going. It's 
very simple. Just follow the instructions. Once you have Node working, you can do Node-V and see that 
you have at least Node 20. You are ready to go. Now, in this folder, this is my dev folder. And this is a technique that 
I've used throughout almost all of my career is I like to keep all of my projects under a dev folder. So, if you 
see under my user directory, I have a dev folder. I've actually called it dev-bmc. 
And in here, I have a few projects. Now, you'll notice I don't have the BMAD code here. I have this digest service. This 
is a project that I started in the last video, at the end of the last video, and I did work on a little bit since then, 
but that is done with V3. And so, I'm going to show you in a bit how to upgrade a V3 project. So, what I'm going 
to do here from the terminal is I'm going to do npx-ray. And then I'm just 
going to say BMAD- method. And then I'm going to say install. 
And now it's going to ask you if you are okay with installing BMAD method. This 
is going to put it into the cache of npm and make it globally available on your system so you can use it over and over 
again without actually having to download and clone the whole GitHub repo. So, I'm going to say yes. It's 
going to set that up. And now we are in the actual installer. And the first thing you have to do here is you do have to give it a project directory. I'm 
going to choose new digest service just because there's nothing in there aside from a starter template. And since 
there's no existing BMAD agent or BMAD method in there, it's going to know that this is a new install. And we have 
multiple options here. Expansion packs are coming. That's a beta feature right now. But this is going to add more functionality into the BMAD method such 
as game developments, some business features, some fun features. A lot of cool stuff is coming with that, but 
we're just going to go with the complete installation. And I recommend doing this. It even says recommended. This is going to give you all the core agents of 
the BMAD method. Here are some of those beta um expansion packs that we have. 
You can select them with the space bar if you want to, but I'm going to leave those off for now, and I'm just going to hit enter to skip that. Now here you can 
select your IDE. I'm going to select cursor and claude code because I use both within the same IDE. But just to 
show you, I'm going to also select R code and windsurf. And very soon within the next few days, there will be a few 
more IDEs listed here. But if your IDE is not listed here, don't worry. All this does is set up rules. And I will 
show you how to use the BMAD method without even using rules if if your IDE is not currently listed here. But just 
know that it will be here very soon. So I'm going to hit enter. And now it's going to ask if we also want those web 
bundles. So when I downloaded that txt file and put it in the gem, I had to download that from the uh the web, 
right? The better thing to do here is just install them either here into your project. You can say yes, and then it'll 
put a folder with all of the possible web bundles in your folder. I'm going to do that just so I can show you what 
happens. I'm just going to select all of them. And you can always delete them if you don't want them or experiment with 
the different ones, but let's just accept all the web bundles. And I'm going to let it go to this default location. So now a lot of text is out 
there. Um, but now let's just open it up and see what actually installed. So I'm 
going to type code and then I'm going to type the digest service. And this is 
going to open up cursor to our project. All it did was it added the BMAD core. 
It also set up some cursor rules with all the agents. Uh now I did windsurf here. Now obviously I'm not using 
windsurf but this is if you're using windsurf it's following a very similar convention. 
And we also have clawed commands here to get going in cursor. If you want to set 
up actual custom agents you have two options. One option is to just rely on 
the rules. And I'm going to show you what these rules look like. If we look at the PM for example, 
these are what are called manual rules and that is because always apply is false, globs is empty and there is no 
description. When you do that, that means the only way this rule is activated is manually by typing the at 
symbol and then the name of the agent. So instead of setting up a bunch of custom modes, and by the way, cursor 
does limit you to five custom modes max. And you'll see there's 10 agents here. But if you want to use an agent that you 
have not set up as a custom mode and this is the same in wind surf by the way you can just type at and then you can 
type the name of the agent. So if we want to talk to the PM we can just do that and then we are going to look for this icon that looks like a ruler. And 
now I can either just hit enter to load it or I can tell it hello. Um and you 
can see this is just the stock agent. I didn't select a custom mode here and this is using claw force on it. So now 
that it's finished loading that, you can see that this is just like if we were in the web. This is the product manager. He 
can do different things for us. We can type the star help command. So we can just type star help and see what the PM 
is able to do for us. Okay. Now I want to show you one other way to install before we go forward and show you how to 
actually set up the agents and start using the agents in here to get going. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to just delete these. First of all, I'm 
going to delete all of these. I'm going to get it back basically to the state it was in. I'm even going to 
clear out this context just so there is no remnants of the project. I'm going to show you how instead of using npx, you 
can use npm. So let's go over to the GitHub. And then now what we're going to do is we're just going to copy this link 
here. And I'm going to clear this out. And now again, if we remember, we have 
only these three folders. I'm just going to do get clone. Then I'm going to paste that URL. And now that's going to give 
us the BMAD method locally here. Now I have the BMAD method. So now I'm just going to do code BMAD method. 
And this is my preferred way of actually working with and interacting with the BMAD method. This is everything that was 
in GitHub. Exactly what we were looking at before, but now we have all the code downloaded locally. Take some time and 
read through this. It's not as long as it looks. It's very simple. But if you want to get into the nuts and bolts of 
how the BMAD method works beyond working with the agent, this docs folder has 
documents for all of the IDEs that I showed you. And like I said, more will be coming soon. Plus, you can view the 
core architecture of how the BMAD method works in cursor or excuse me, also in VS 
Code. And you can see here's the system architecture of how it's all put together. Um, we can also see what are 
the core agents of the BMAD V4 method. It's made up of agents, agent teams, workflows, templates, tasks, checklists, 
data files such as the knowledge base, um how it processes templates. There's been a lot of improvements in V4. So, 
you know, if you're familiar with the method already or if you if you've watched some my some of my videos, you can come through here and you can learn 
a lot more about how this is actually architect architected and over time start understanding the nuts and bolts 
of how this works and you'll be better equipped to also make this method truly your own by doing your own modifications 
or maybe even contributing to the BMAD method. Again, would love to have people contribute expansion packs or even 
improvements to the core system because it's not perfect yet. It's an ever evolving system as the landscape of AI 
tooling is constantly also changing and getting more powerful. Now you'll notice in here it is called BMAD core and not 
BMAD core. When it installs it is going to install it with the BMAD core to your 
project. One other thing to point out with the BMAD core is when it installed when it insults uh the agent sometimes 
insults me but when the BMAD core method installs there is also a core configuration file that is going to be 
added. But just know that this basically controls a few things mostly for the scrum master and the developer agent 
which are the two most important agents in this whole system because the scrum master if you remember from the previous 
video is the one that is going to make the absolute detailed instructions for the developer agent and then the 
developer agent is going to only rely on story files with those very detailed instructions for it to do its job. You 
can see in here there is this dev load always files setting. You can configure this. And if you want to have certain 
files that your dev agent always loads, you can do that here. You don't want to put too much in there, and it really 
does depend on which model you're using, which LLM model you're using, and how much context window you have, right? You 
want to keep it lean to save context. I like to rely on the uh scrum master actually putting a lot of the details 
into the detailed story files. By the way, in V4, if for some reason you're 
using a non-standard format, version 4 of the BMAD method, the scrum master 
will try to make some inferences and use whatever documents you have because you never want your dev agent to have to 
load that whole architecture file on its own. It'll blow the context and most of the time it only needs one or two 
details for the specific story or task that it is working on. All right, so let's show how to do the installer now 
from the BMAD method. Instead of using npx, we are going to use npm and that is 
the node package manager and we're going to use that to run a script. So if we look in our package.json, we have this 
install bad method script here. And we also have some dependencies. Uh Ken, who 
I mentioned before who has contributed a lot to the BMAD method. Thank you again. um has built a markdown tree parser uh 
special just for the BMAD method to help us shard our documents if we choose to do that to take our large PRD and large 
architecture and turn it into smaller documents. So it will be less context 
for our agents to have to pull in. In other words, our scrum master or our developer will only read the small files 
that they need to instead of having to consume these large files, making them much more efficient. The first thing 
we're going to do here is npm install. And this is just going to download 
basically some of these dependencies, store them in the node modules. None of this is going to be used in your actual 
project. Again, this is just so we can use this fancy installer. We will now just type npm run. And we are going to 
do this script right here. Install BMAD. And again, this is the same as npxbad 
method install. Now, just like before, if I hit enter, it's going to complain. We need a valid path. Now, this is a V3 
project that I started with the last video that I did. Um, this was going to be the backend and I did start 
developing it. And this is with the V3 method of the BMAD method because you can see the old BMAD agent is here and 
in the docs folder. You can see that our old way of doing V3 is here. We had a 
PRD and we had an architecture. Some of the sections in those files have changed 
to align to a new standard with V4 which is everything that will be sharted into 
a new document is now markdown level two which means two hash marks next to the 
title in V4. By having everything conformed to the document titles being 
the layer 2 levels, it's now very easy to shard the documents and get the documents out that we need, which I will 
show you in a bit. With V3, the PRD did produce the Epic files and the architecture produced all of these other 
files here. This is not the way we want it formatted for V4. And of course, we 
don't want this BMAD agent. Copy the full path. Come over here and paste that in here. 
Now, we're going to do complete installation so we can get everything added for us. We're not going to choose any of the ext expansion packs. 
This time, I'm going to turn on all of these. I'm not going to do the pre-built web bundles this time because I already 
have them here in the disc folder, so I don't need to also copy them. But with NPX, if you want to have them locally, 
then you would choose yes there. But I'm going to choose no. And now here's the key thing is it's 
noticed that we have a V3 installation in the folder we're trying to go to. So we have a couple options here. We can 
either upgrade from V3 to V4 which is what I recommend or we can install it alongside. And then basically what you 
do is you would manually peacemeal migrate yourself. But let's just go with the recommended. And now it is going to 
uh warn us of two different things. Epic files have already been found. This is actually a great thing. It recognized 
that epics were there and it just conforms already to the V4 method. So 
right now the epics are here, but what it's going to do is it's going to take these and it's going to move those to a PRD folder, which is like what it's 
saying right here. And it will also have an index.mmd, which is a new convention 
that allows the agents to know what files are available easily by just looking at a single file. And then um 
it's also going to tell us that we don't need to shard the PRD after the upgrade, but we will still want to shard the 
architecture. So anyways, continue with upgrade, yes or no. I'm going to say yes. And now it is done. Now there is 
some important information here that you can read, but it told you the V3 files have been backed up. The V4 structure 
has been installed to a new folder calledBBAC core. All the documents have been migrated, 12 files and three epics. 
So, it's kind of warning you that you'll want to update if you already set up some custom modes. You will want to 
change those to use the V4 agents in the digest service. And now you can see 
there's a lot of changes here. First of all, I selected rue. And you'll notice rue modes whether you're doing an 
install or an upgrade is going to get installed to the root of your project. And these are custom modes just like we 
would create in cursor. The key here is that we have BMAD core and that is the core installation. We have our core 
config, our install manifest, which lets us know in the future if we need to make another update to anything in the BMAD 
core as the project evolves. Now, our docs folder, we still have our PRD and our architecture that it found. Now, 
maybe you had some custom files in here. Don't worry, they're not lost. You can still go back and find everything 
because everything was moved to a backup folder, including your BMAD agent, just in case you customize something and you 
want to get it out of there. But if you don't need it, just delete it. And then you can check your docs. So the 
docs has all the stories that we were working on. We don't need that because the stories are retained here. So the 
stories that we were working on are still here and they still follow the same format in V4. The PRD, we're not 
going to convert it. We're just going to leave it as is. But the architecture, we're going to want to actually convert 
it to the V4 version of the architecture. No matter what IDE you're using, though, you can use all of these 
tasks without using the agents. We're going to go to the BMAD Core folder. We're going to go right to the tasks folder. We're going to find the doc 
migration task here. And I'm just going to do this. I'm just going to say regular agent here. Yeah, I would 
suggest using the thinking mode. That's the one with the little brain here. Clawed force on it is great. And then we're just going to say run. I'm going 
to drag in the doc migration task. This is a great way to use any task quickly without even needing to worry about 
having an agent loaded. Run doc migration task on. And we're going to take our v3 version of the architecture 
and drop it there. And that'll do it. And that'll basically then convert it. Um I just want to show you that this is 
just as easy to do in cloud code though. So in cloud code we will just start cloud. 
And here we are now in cloud code and it's the same thing. So again we're going to say run doc migration task. 
We're going to say on architecture and I'm going to give it an extra option here just to make sure that it really 
does the right thing. And I'm going to say using the and since I know this was from the V3 architecture, I'm going to 
specifically use this template right here that says architecture template.mmd. 
In V4, there's a few architecture templates to support different types of workflows. If you're starting with V4 
from scratch, you'll want to just use, I would say, for almost everything, full 
stack architecture. This will actually put your front end and your backend all 
in a single architecture document. Whether you're doing a monor repo or a 
poly repo, it keeps it all self-contained. It makes the planning much easier. And now instead of having 
two agents, a design agent architect and a regular architect, the full stack 
architect now knows how to build both front end and backend or design your front end and backend projects. All 
right. So anyways, we have uh again told it to run the migration task on this architecture file using this template. 
We're going to hit enter here and we're going to let this turn. So this is going to take a while to run. So while it's 
running, I'm going to describe a little bit about what it's doing. First of all, it is going to read the existing 
document after it understands what the migration task is. And you'll notice with cloud code, it actually breaks it 
down automatically into these nice tasks. So you can actually see how it's thinking and working step by step. So it 
is going to read the doc migration task first. So it understands just what it's supposed to do. It's going to understand 
that we are doing an architecture specifically. So there are instructions here for architecture documents right 
here. So now it's reading the input architecture file which is the V3 
version. It's then going to read the architecture template V4 version and 
understand maybe where sections have been renamed or some things have stayed the same. 
Some level 3es have become level twos and some titles have just changed. It's going to calculate all of that. It's 
going to ensure that we preserve everything and do not lose any information. But the key is to align all 
of the level twos with the level two that are in the template. That way when we shard our document, it's going to 
shard it exactly as if it were created from V4 to begin with. Okay. And it looks like it's finished. Here we can 
see that it did finish and it says it preserved all of the content and 
migrated to all the proper level two headings. So let's now check our document here. And we can see here that 
we do have Yes, this definitely looks like V2 and I 
know because the change log comes early and we do have our sections and a quick 
way to check is we should have highle architecture tech stack data models components external APIs core workflows 
rest API spec database schema source tree infrastructure this is great this 
did an awesome job all of our coding standards are now self-contained and that will become a file that the dev agent uses uh testing strategy security 
checklist. Perfect. And then as far as these next steps, I will actually just delete these because I have already 
talked to the design architect and I've already done the developer handoff piece in the web. And we also don't need this 
information here. So I will just delete that. Save this. I do not need the 
backup. There was no starter template. So we can also get rid of that. So now I'm going to show you how to actually 
shard this document and you don't have to do it manually. And again, this is going to benefit you later when you want 
potentially your dev agent, but usually your SM agent to consider a very specific file. It won't have to load the 
whole document when it doesn't need to. So let's just come down here to claude. So I'm going to go back to task and now 
I'm going to look for shard doc. And so I'm going to say again run shard doc 
on. So here is our updated architecture. We will just go like this and hit enter. 
And it's going to give us an option. We can either use the md tree command from 
the globally installed kb markdown tree parser or we can try with manual 
sharding. I recommend not doing manual sharding because that's going to use your llm. it's going to take a lot of time and you're just going to waste 
credits. Instead, what you'll want to do is if you haven't done this already, you can just do the npx command much like we 
did for the BMAD method. You can run that in a terminal and then you will 
globally have this markdown tree parser available to you. It's really awesome and it doesn't actually get installed to 
your project itself. Even if you do the npm install, this will install it into your global npm cache. So you can use 
this great utility from KAN in any project. If it finds it, it will just 
run the command for us and we'll see it go and we'll see how quick it is. So here it is going to do it. It's going to 
say use MD tree to shard the architecture. And this will work with any LLM as long as it can find that MD 
tree command. And boom, we're basically already done. And I know it's already done because the architecture is already 
here. And look at this. All of these documents are now perfectly sharded from the level two. Isn't that amazing? This 
used to take forever in the V3 method and it was sometimes errorprone if there was weird formatting your in your 
document. Now, as long as you have level twos in your document, you're going to get perfect documents for everything 
that you need. And now, for example, we can look at our source tree and it's now 
a self-contained file. So if we ever want to give the source tree to the LLM, we now have the source tree. Actually 
before we use our scrum master, I realized that there was one update to the BMAD method since we actually 
installed to this digest service. So if we come over here, what I want to show you now is how we can just make sure 
that we have the latest of the BMAD method. And now here we have some changes. You can see there was an update 
to the version. So now if I do npm run and then install bmatad again, it's the 
exact same command. And then just like before, I'm going to 
copy this folder here. So I'm just going to copy the full path. And what's going to be really cool is we're going to see 
that now this is going to realize that V4 is over there. And it's going to say that it found V4 existing installation. 
Do we want to update the existing installation because it knows that we have newer changes? 
we can do yes. So that is very cool. And now to know that we actually got the 
changes, we can look at the install manifest and we can see that we're now on 410.1. These are all the stories that 
we were working on um with the V3 video that I did a few weeks ago. This is 
about as far as we got. But uh we can see that this story was completed in cursor. We can add a custom mode. Let's 
do that. Let's just add a quick custom mode. So what I will do is instead of using the rulebased custom mode instead 
I'll just copy the same thing here and you can get it from this file or you can also get it from the agent but you go to 
the agent you go to the scrum master and we are just going to select all of this 
maybe you don't see add custom modes here this is an annoying thing in cursor you just go to settings you go to cursor 
settings you're going to go to the chat tab they keep moving this option around all over the place but under the chat 
tab tab, they have custom modes beta. Make sure that this is toggled on. If it's off, you will not see this option 
here. But now that we do have that toggled on, again, we can go here, go to custom modes, go to advanced option. We 
already copied the SM agent. So, we're just going to give it a title up here. 
We're going to call it SM. And we are going to paste all of that contents in here. Now, we are done. While I'm here, 
I'm just going to go ahead and have the add the dev mode while I'm at it. So, same thing. We will go to advanced options and now we will pass paste those 
dev instructions in there. So I'm just having to say draft the next story. And 
what the scrub master does is it will actually look for this draft next story task which is right here. And that task 
basically says find the highest numbered story here. Make sure that it actually has a status of done. If it does have a 
status of done, it is then gonna look, it is then going to look to the PRD folder and figure out, okay, that last 
story done was story 2.2. So, it's going to check epic 2 and it's going to see if there's any more stories. So, here, 
let's do something different. Let's go out of our digest service. Let's go back to the BMAD method. And actually, I have 
another project that I mentioned called new digest service. And this is basically a reset of the other project, 
but this is now a brand new nothing but our template. So all we have is a 
starter template here. It has some just a quick math demo thing. I use this just to basically get backend projects going 
quickly because it has npm and testing and everything else prettier configured 
exactly like I like it. And all I have here is our PRD, which is a V4 PRD and a 
V4 architecture. Um, nothing else. As a matter of fact, I don't even have git here. So, as a matter of fact, the very 
first thing I would do before doing anything else is just do get a nit. I've 
said this in previous videos and I'll say it again. In between each story, you 
always want to commit your changes once you know that it's working and push it to the remote. And that way if your 
agent goes off the rails. Don't just try to keep going in circles, throw away all your changes and start over. Sometimes 
that's the best thing that you can do. And when I say start over, get rid of your local changes and maybe go back to 
the beginning of if you're on story 3, go back to the beginning of story 3. If you're constantly saving and pushing 
your changes to the remote, it's very easy to do that. Get commits dashm. You 
can also use the LLM for this or the agent for this, but it's easy enough just to do get init commits. 
Oops, and rookie mistake there. I forgot to do get add all. That will actually stage everything for the commits. And 
now I will do a commit message and it's all committed. And so now we are in good shape. So now if I were to screw 
something up, I could just revert back to this state very easily. Just imagine we worked through the whole web flow. We 
talked to the PM and the architect. They gave us the PRD document and the architecture document. So, we save it to 
this docs folder. And we are just going to get the path of the project. We are 
going to do npm run. And then we're going to do install BMAD just like 
before. And the first thing we're going to do is we're going to paste in the path that we just uh copied. And so that 
is the path to our new service where we do not have BMAD method installed already. and we're going to do the 
complete installation. We're going to skip the expansion packs. We're going to select cursor and cloud code for the 
rules. We are not going to include the web bundles because we already have them in our disc folder here. We've looked at 
that before. And that uh installed everything for us. It is done. It is 
quick. And now we have our BMAD core here. We have all of our agents, our tasks, our templates. We're ready to go. 
We have claude and we have cursor. And so I will just do get commit again because I like to actually save this in 
version control. And so now we can say BMAD installed. I am going to do npm 
install since this is a node project. A node project since I already started with a starter project. There are 
dependencies in here already. So I might as well go ahead and get those installed. So those are now out of the 
way. So we will start Claude here 
and just like we did before, this is our first time using him in this project. So we say yes. So I'm going to select the 
doc sharding task. So we're going to go to tasks. We're going to select 
somewhere here shard doc. We're going to say run shard doc 
against. And this is going to be very fast because these are v4 documents. So I just want to show you how smooth this 
is with both a PRD and an architecture. Now the PRD is here and all of the epics are actually in here. Now shard the 
architecture and it should know but I'll just say with the same task using 
the markdown tree tool. I don't want it to go through the whole 
thing of deciding whether it should or not. That should just let it know to use the same markdown tree parser. It is. 
It's going to use the command. It's going to use it on the architecture. So giving the LLM more information does 
make it much more efficient. So now we have our architecture also 
perfectly sharded just like we did in the legacy application before. We're going to tell the scrum master uh draft 
story 1.1 or you could say the next story but I know it's 1.1 in this case 
so might as well help it along. So now in this case the scrum master 
again is going to use that task. It's going to read the core config. It's going to understand what it needs to do. 
It's going to load epic one and find that story 1.1 is the first story. So 
here it is. it's uh looking for it. And then what it's going to do is it's going to start inspecting all of these 
architecture documents based on the details of that first story. It is going to 
look at you know what the directory structure is going to be, what type of technologies we're using, what it needs 
to know to create this very first story. Here's where it's saying no stories directory exists yet. So it is going to 
create it. And this is where you want to use, I would say, your most powerful thinking models because this really 
does, especially as it gets more complex, need to take in a lot of information to really create these 
detailed stories. You know, don't go cheap on your model usage at the story drafting time or at the development 
time, but use your thinking models and story drafting. You'll have much better results. And then when you're 
developing, a lot of times you can use your non-thinking models because the story file itself is going to be so 
detailed that it will have very clear instructions to follow. So here we're just going to accept this and assume 
that this is good. This is a very first story. When I do these projects, my 
first story in the first epic is always, you know, just getting the boiler plate set up. And even if we started with a 
simple boilerplate project, just making sure that a lot of the initial things are in place. But we can see that the 
agent put in a lot of good information here for the developer too. So it doesn't have to read from other files. 
So now as always, I will start a new chat 
and I'm going to review this on my own. Assume it's good. And so I'm just going to change this to 
approved. And now instead of using cursor there, 
let's use claude. Let's switch it up. But I could use cursor and just switch to the dev agent. But I just want to 
show you that again, no matter what IDE you're using, 
it's pretty much the same process, right? Whether you're doing it from a rule or a custom mode or even dragging 
in a task or dragging in an agent. You can also just drag an agent in and say 
assume this persona, right? That's another way to do it. But but I'm going to do the claude command. And since I 
have the claude rules, I can now see all of my agents are available here. So I can select the dev agent by up and down 
arrow. And now this is just loading the dev persona. And it should greet me as 
James the developer, which it just did. And James is our full stack developer. We did instruct the dev agent to load 
any files that it can find from this core config. So if you remember in this 
core config, anytime the developer comes online, it is always going to read these 
files and kind of put it into its core memory. So it operates with those. So here it did load all of the available 
files. It seems like two files were missing. Oh, a debug log and that is because we are not using a debug log 
yet. So that is fine. And it also could not find docs architecture project 
structure. So that is one that we want to check on. Docs architecture. 
Oh, and you know what? I think we named this file wrong here because project structure is now going to be called 
source tree. So what I can do is if that happens, I can just call this source 
tree. And we are now in good shape. Now I can just tell it to develop the next story 
or start development and it will always look for the highest 
numbered story in the stories folder and it will halt if it doesn't find any stories. But it's also going to make 
sure that it finds one that's in the approved status or in development. If something is in draft or done, it will 
halt and it will say that it can't find the story to develop. But if I do start 
development, hopefully this will find that story. Now to make it a little bit 
more efficient. But you can see right there it did find the right story and it will notice that that's approved and it's going to start developing. But to 
make it more efficient, what I would honestly do is just drag in the story and say develop this story. It won't 
have to do that searching and it'll save a few tokens and just make it a little bit more efficient. Next time we can do 
a full project build together from the web through the IDE. nothing but product 
development or project development step by step how I build applications. So 
we'll see you next time. Thank you for joining me. Please like and subscribe and again come join us in the community. 
Check us out in the discord or in the discussion forums and we'll talk to you there. So we'll see you next time here 
on BMAD Code.