Hey everybody, Brian here to clue you in 
on the new hype cycle of the week. This 
week it's context engineering, the 
replacement for 
prompt engineering. I don't know, but 
it's the hot new buzzword in agentic 
coding in the AI world, courtesy of 
Andre Capathy. 
It's being hailed as the next big thing. 
The hype cycle is real. It's the 
successor to prompt engineering and the 
final nail in the coffin to vibe coding 
is what I'm hearing. And it's led to so 
many big questions for our own community 
of BMAD method users. A question I've 
been getting a lot on Discord and here 
on the YouTube channel itself. Did 
context engineering just kill off the 
BMAD method? 
Hell no. In fact, this is the ultimate 
validation of everything that we have 
been doing for months. Stay with me here 
as we break it down. You know, so what 
is this hot new term context 
engineering? It's the idea that to get 
great results from an AI agent, you need 
to give it deep and specific context to 
keep it on the rails, especially for 
complex projects. It means you don't 
just start talking to the AI vibe 
coding. 
And you don't just use prompt magic to 
get your agent to do things without 
making an absolute mess. The best way is 
you start with a plan. For example, 
you put on your product manager hat and 
create a PRD with a vision of what your 
goal is step by step. And then you put 
on your architect hat and lay out or 
understand an existing architecture. 
And then you take all of this and 
distill it down and give this context to 
the agent, the very essence of what this 
developer agent needs all in one place 
to give it stepby-step detailed 
instructions 
feeding in the information we produced. 
So it can't go off the rails. Almost as 
if anyone with minimal experience could 
do it because it's so explicit and 
detailed. The context is baked right 
into the instructions or the context for 
the agent. This sounds really familiar. 
Oh yeah, it is. This is the exact 
principle that the BMAD method is built 
on. It's the core of our funnel. My 
friends, we've been doing this for 
months and the amazing results from the 
community speak for themselves. We just 
didn't have the viral name for it, 
unfortunately. 
But you know, we've all heard context is 
king, but people have been thinking of 
that as the token window and maximizing 
it before it runs out or even worse when 
using tools like cursor where it 
butchers the context to save on cost. So 
yeah, context is king, but it's not the 
whole kingdom. Here's the critical point 
the buzzword chasers are missing. People 
are now saying okay we have context 
engineering so prompt engineering is 
irrelevant now is it is it really 
because I would say that could be not 
further from the truth think about it 
how do you build that perfect context 
especially if starting from zero how do 
you get from zero to one how do you get 
the absolute best plan from the LLM in 
the first place you do it through 
advanced prompt engineering 
context is more than just telling the 
LLM where to stick a line of code. Good 
prompting will get you good planning. 
Bad prompting gets you [ __ ] Look, if 
all context was was, you know, just put 
this here, put this there, you could 
tell the LLM to stick this line of code 
up here. Oh [ __ ] Well, you get the 
idea. And it would do it. The BMAD 
method or custom really quality 
prompting and planning has always been 
about the trifecta. The BMAD method is 
really the trifecta of planning, prompt 
engineering, and context engineering. 
This plan elevates above vibe coding. If 
nothing else, start with a plan, my 
friends. Throw it to the BMAD m agents. 
Use taskmaster. Use whatever you want. I 
prefer the BMAD method because I like 
the agile workflow. But don't just rely 
on the average mediocre slop that the 
LLM is going to give you on the first 
response when you ask it for something. 
This is where prompt engineering is 
still critical and leads to advanced 
elicitation. 
And look, even if the LLM's get better, 
it's still it's still going to be 
helpful to have good prompt engineering 
because look at this. Think about your 
own life. Forget LM for a second. If 
you're talking to somebody and you ask 
them a question, the first the first 
answer they give you, is that the best 
answer? Or do you probe and do you pry 
and do you dig deeper to really get the 
response or to really understand what 
you're saying? LLMs are no different. 
Well, they're actually much worse than 
human. So, you really have to use this. 
And even when the LLMs get better, 
right, GPT5 comes out and it gets much 
better. Maybe prompt engineering is not 
going away. Even if the LLM understands 
you at first and gives you what you 
think is the best answer, why would you 
trust that? Why would you not push it to 
get more out of it? That is prompt 
engineering. But look, the BMBA method 
has evolved beyond simple tasks to guide 
you section by section through a 
template. Now, it uses advanced 
elicitation. It's a key technique in pro 
in modern prompt engineering. And we use 
it to make the LLM question itself and 
even work with you to get better results 
from you. We get it to play devil's 
advocate with itself, question its own 
ideas, question its assumptions, 
steelman itself, straw man itself, 
really break down its own arguments to 
make sure that they are the best it can 
give you. This is how you build powerful 
robust context back and forth as a team 
with your LLM agent. You can't do great 
context engineering without great prompt 
engineering unless you are going to 
mastercraft all of the information 
yourself to give to the LLM. But then 
why not use the LLM what it excels at? 
Working in tandem as partners helping 
each other produce better than the whole 
each of you could do on its own. And 
that brings us back to vibe coding. 
Right? Vibe coding fails as I've said 
many times when a project gets even 
slightly complex. But did I ever say why 
that is? It's simple. It's because it's 
defined by a lack of a plan, a lack of 
context, and a lack of good prompting. 
You're just taking the average [ __ ] that 
it gives you and letting it go with it. 
It's just vibing. Sometimes it's fun, 
right? It's great for building a toy or 
a simple prototype. It is a lot of fun, 
right? And sometimes that's all you 
need. But people are confusing the tool 
with the method. Using your voice to 
talk to an LLM, I just want to say right 
now, is not automatically vibe coding. 
Vibe coding is a very specific thing 
from a tweet. I can use my voice and I 
can still be practicing rigorous prompt 
engineering and context engineering to 
execute a detailed plan. I'm still 
working with the agent and letting it do 
all the work for me. The BMAD method is 
the combination of all three of these. 
the structure of context engineering, 
the skill of prompt engineering, and the 
wisdom to know when vibe coding is or 
isn't the right tool for the job. 
My friends, if you're worried about 
another trend, another hype cycle, don't 
be. Just relax. This industry moves so 
fast, faster than ever. What's old is 
new again, will happen over and over. 
I've been through this for 30 years, but 
nothing has moved this quickly. We're 
constantly going to feel like we're 
behind. You're going to hear a new thing 
every day. You've been exploring the 
BMAD method, though. You are not behind 
at all. You are ahead of the curve and 
this is absolutely nothing new, my 
friend. Context engineering is what we 
have been doing all along. You know, as 
always, I'm not selling anything. I care 
about the community and you. I really do 
want to help you and pass along my 
knowledge from a long career, but also 
the deep dive I've done into agentic 
coding. But I think if you do use the 
BMAD method, it's going to help you if 
you're still struggling with vibe coding 
or even getting out of the gate. Look, I 
love to share my long career and 
experience. Like I said, and care that 
you learn the concepts, you know, fork 
the BMAD method repo, call it something 
else, make it your own, rip it apart, do 
anything with it. My goal was always to 
share these ideas and get you to change 
the way you work with the machine. I 
just didn't have the Twitter following 
to make the name stick. But the method 
is sound and now it's being validated on 
a massive scale as many have completed 
and shared their MVPs and talked about 
how they were stuck before started over 
started with the BMAD method and these 
concepts they have internalized made 
their own you know made their own tweaks 
to these agents and the workflows and 
the processes and gotten real production 
ready projects complete and across the 
finish line. Nothing nothing makes me 
happier than to hear that I have helped 
so many others around the world, 
thousands and thousands of people 
getting results that they were not 
getting before. And for those of you who 
want to dive in, the open source BMAD 
method project is more powerful and 
easier to use than ever. It was a little 
complex at first, but V4, I think we're 
up four 4.20 right now. It's matured. 
It's got a new installer. We support 
green field projects and brownfield 
projects. So you can start with a brand 
new project, your idea, just a seed of 
an idea or you can, you know, jump into 
existing large code bases. The core BMAD 
method is still there, simple and 
powerful, but we've also added some 
expansion packs even beyond coding. But 
look, thank you for joining me. If this 
resonates with you at all, please like 
and subscribe. It helps the channel more 
than you can know. And if you want to 
support the project directly or me, 
check out the buy me a coffee link in 
the description. And most importantly, 
get involved. Go to the GitHub repo, 
check it out, and please give it a star. 
It really helps us get seen and helps 
spread the method around with others. 
And join our Discord community, too. The 
link is in the description. It's a 
friendly, welcoming, and active 
community where we all talk about AI 
agents, the BMAD method, other, you 
know, other ways of working, how to 
improve it, how to make it your own, and 
how to get help on your own projects. 
So, you know, come on in, ask questions, 
get help, share what you're building. I 
would love to know what you're building 
with or without the BMAD method, and 
enjoy the fact that you are ahead of the 
curve already, and this is not yet some 
other thing that you need to change to 
doing because you've already been doing 
it with the BMAD method or your own way. 
So, come on in and say hi, friends. My 
name is BMED or Brian, and I'll see you 
in the next video.