Today I just paid my renewal for Claude 
Code after one month of use. I didn't 
know a month ago if I would keep it. I 
was one of the biggest cursor fans. I 
started using it about the time Sonic 
3.5 came out when everybody started 
jumping on to using cursor in Windsurf 
because that's when everything changed. 
That's when Claude got really good. 
That's when it just started to feel like 
magic and everything started to fall 
together. And it's been a crazy ride 
with cursor over the last few months. I 
wasn't even looking to change. I was 
happy with cursor. The BMAD method. You 
all know I've always preached go into 
the web, do your planning in the web, 
and then get that stuff into cursor or 
whatever you're using, save yourself 
some money, and then move forward with 
it. One of the biggest challenges always 
with cursor has been that context window 
and the small context window that cursor 
gives you where you know you have a few 
turns of a chat and you're already 
running out of the context like the 
cursor run for right all of a sudden 
your window's full. It's going to start 
hallucinating. It gives you the warning. 
You got to click the button to start a 
new chat. Hopefully it carries the 
context forward or you have to have 
other techniques 
and it's frustrating because sometimes 
even in the BMAD method with the small 
granular stories for the developer 
it can't always get through the story 
without eating up the full context. The 
other issue is if you ever wanted to do 
the PRD and the architecture in cursor 
doing everything in the IDE cuz that 
really would be the dream, right? You're 
burning up credits. you're paying that 
$20 a month and you're hitting your 500 
credit limit within a few days. And so 
then Cursor comes out with their updates 
when 3.7 Sonic came out and they release 
released max mode. And then this is 
where the shift in cursor really started 
to change for me because all of a sudden 
the experience of not using max mode 
just wasn't as good. And then they 
started charging extra for thinking 
models and then you're paying per 
credit. So, you're paying a subscription 
and then you're also paying per credit. 
And if you don't pay attention, those 
costs go up quick. Now, we're on 
Discord, by the way, but we had some 
discussion threads in GitHub. Somebody 
went in there and made this claim. It 
just got stuck in my head and I couldn't 
stop thinking about this message that I 
read and it was something along the 
lines of I just used clawed code for 
almost eight hours straight 
in the same chat thread 
never having to switch to a new window 
and I still haven't used up all my usage 
and for one fee the $100 a month that 
I'm paying I never run out 
And again, this just sounds like junk 
because who can have any chat with an 
LLM for hours, let alone Claude, because 
if you've ever used at least the free 
version or the $20 version of Claude 
Desktop, it seems like you couldn't have 
a conversation with Claude more than 
four or five turn turns and it'll be 
like, "Okay, you got to wait 5 hours. 
You've used up all your time." 
So, I'm like, "Oh, this is just utter 
BS." But that thought 
just I'm like, could this be real? This 
is impossible. But the idea was there. I 
couldn't get it out of my mind. So, I'm 
just thinking, let me just give this a 
shot. $100 is a lot, but 
it's cheaper than what I could 
potentially end up spending if I 
actually want to use the premium models. 
So, it's it's worth a shot. And so, I 
went into it. Within the first day, I 
was like just blown away. Like the 
experience 
was 
almost as significant or maybe even more 
significant 
than the first time I started using the 
agent mode and cursor and seeing the 
potential of that. I think everybody 
remembers that first time they started 
using the agent in cursor or winds surf 
or any of these agentic tools and just 
the utter amazement and seeming magic of 
what the agent can do. This felt like 
that all over again. It was almost like 
the magic of discovering that for the 
first time. But this felt more 
significant. 
This now felt like a tool that I was not 
having to babysit and manage as much in 
worrying 
what I do and don't do in there. There 
was this whole other aspect too. So I 
didn't really plan to enjoy the 
experience of clog code. I liked 
something about the IDE window in cursor 
like it was self-contained. It was right 
there. I did not think I would enjoy 
using its terminal whatsoever. The first 
time I used started using cloud code in 
the terminal, I gave it a pretty 
challenging task. I don't remember what 
that first task was, but it created a 
task list on its own and started broke 
breaking down what it was going to do 
until 10 or 12 steps and it did them all 
and it did them all perfectly. Think 
about how many times you've asked any of 
the LLMs, 
especially in cursor, even with the same 
model, even with the set 4.0 model 
go in and update all these files and do 
something and maybe it'll identify all 
the files and then it will change three 
of them and tell you it's done 
or it'll say okay I've updated these 
four files 
and you have to say okay do the rest 
and then it'll do two more and be like 
okay I did two more and you're having to 
babysit it and tell it okay please just 
do them all just do them all it'll say 
okay I will do them all and what does it 
do it does two more a month ago the 
first time I used claw code and I saw it 
produce this task list and keep checking 
like I didn't even ask it to do it and 
look this is becoming more commonplace 
now so this is a month on and all the 
products are now building out this 
internal tasking so it's probably 
doesn't seem as magical unless you 
haven't experienced it yet but seeing 
that for the first time I'm like this is 
something special right here. And then 
you start realizing 
the terminal is actually freeing because 
you can do so much with it. And then 
Gemini CLI came out about a week and a 
half ago and I was super excited about 
that because up until that point I was 
still doing all the planning in the web 
thinking I needed to keep that cost 
down. For some reason I just didn't make 
the mind switch of oh I don't have 
limits anymore. I'm not running out. I 
can start doing all of this in claw 
code. I should say also I am not 
sponsored by anybody. I think it's worth 
trying, but I'm not trying to sell 
anybody on this. I'm just sharing my 
experience. Do not buy a year lock 
subscription to any of these LLM 
companies right now. If this experience 
changed with quad code tomorrow, 
I would be out learn the concepts and 
techniques. That's something I've said 
over and over again. This is the best 
thing going. But Gemini CLI came out and 
I was excited. I'm like, "This is 
great." And I think Gemini CLI is going 
to be great, but right now it's free. 
And so I'm like, I want to take 
advantage of the terminal and try 
building the PRDS and the architectures 
and doing all the planning and following 
my templates so it comes out in the 
format I want in the IDE. And the nice 
thing about it is 
I can have it keep writing to the file. 
So I don't have to deal with exporting 
it and saving it somewhere else. It's 
constantly writing to a file as I'm 
using it. The best experience has never 
been having to do some stuff in the web 
and some stuff in the terminal. The more 
we can do with the agents in one 
location, the better. The future is 
agents. I talked about that in the last 
video. You're going to talk to an agent 
and it's going to do many different 
things for you. Maybe it's talking to 
other agents, maybe it's talking to 
other services, but it's all going to be 
through potentially one surface or one 
interface. And that's how I feel working 
with these agentic tools in the IDE. 
Also, 
I want it to all be there and be 
self-contained. And now we can do that 
with the Gemini. But the Gemini 
experience is still not great yet. It's 
still buggy. It breaks. And randomly 
with this free, I'm going to call it a 
trial because I think it's this is 
obviously not going to be free forever. 
They've even said I think this is for 
them to get a lot of training data and 
also just to work out the bugs and kinks 
in their tool. 
they are going to start charging. 
They'll go to a subscription model. I 
think it'll be competitive with claude 
code, but right now there's a lot of 
bugs in it and they know they can't 
charge for it. 
But what it works pretty good. But the 
other big issue with Gemini CLI right 
now is it randomly switches to flash. I 
think it depends on how much usage is 
going into it. And when it switches to 
flash, it just kills the experience. It 
kills the immersion of working with the 
full 2.5 Pro model. So that is one of 
the downsides to it. But it got me to 
thinking 
200k context that you get with clawed 
code and the way it optimizes things 
where it feels like it's much much more. 
Why not just start doing that? So that's 
about a week ago when I started having 
issues with Gemini CLI and I still keep 
trying it every few days. I still use it 
for some things, but I started doing the 
full BMAD workflow all in the terminal 
and it has been the best experience 
ever. Being able to actually produce the 
drafts or the documents or refine the 
documents in real time while it's 
constantly updating the file is 
wonderful. 
And I'm not worrying about that cursor 
wasting all my credits and running out 
of cash. This really is the ultimate 
setup. No more worry about what model 
I'm using. I use Opus or I use Sonnet 
for and it's perfect for everything I 
need. I was concerned about what I like 
the terminal experience. I am a convert. 
I think everything should be terminal 
experience that also just avoids a lock 
in. I cancelled my cursor subscription. 
No more. And with what they did recently 
with their introduction of their $200 
plan, which sounded like a great idea, 
but then basically crippled their $20 
plan, and now they're paddling back from 
that, it looks like. Right now, Claude 
Code is so good, and it's giving me 
everything I need. And it's all in the 
terminal. That terminal experience, I 
didn't think I would like it, but I'm 
telling you, it is there's something 
about it. It works great. I can use it 
in VS Code. It still links to VS Code in 
a way that it knows what file you have 
open. This is an exciting time to be 
using these tools. Don't lock yourself 
into one tool. Try different things. But 
right now, $100 a month, I really don't 
think you can beat this. I never thought 
I would have to stop worrying about, oh, 
my contact window's almost done and I'm 
in the middle of this and I got to 
switch over. 
That was the worst. And that's probably 
the other reason I am not calling back 
to cursor right now, forgetting all the 
price shenanigans and everything else. 
I've seen the light in what is possible 
with these other tools. It's hard to go 
back what's coming with Gemini CLI. I 
think it's going to be amazing when they 
get the bugs worked out. We'll see what 
their pricing models. I bet it'll be 
competitive with Claude Code when they 
start charging. And Cloud Code, they're 
going to have to do something to 
maintain competitive because they have 
obviously see the behemoth coming for 
them. But all this means is it's great 
for us. These tools are going to get 
better and cheaper. I think they're both 
gonna have to keep their cost down. I 
don't know how they're making money with 
it or what, but it's going to be a very 
competitive space and I think we all win 
out of it. So, don't lock yourselves in. 
Give some of these terminal agents a try 
and see what you think. There's so much 
more I haven't even covered that is so 
powerful about these when you get that 
ability to use Opus 
for a lot of it and set 4 for the rest 
of it. doing full thinking modes and not 
worrying that I'm now paying extra 
credits or I don't know how much I'm 
actually racking up in cost. It's just 
it's a beautiful freeing thing. You can 
focus on your task at hand. You can 
focus on the job and what you're trying 
to do while not also mentally juggling 
so not using any credits or oh this 
one's only half a credit this week and 
it's on sale so maybe I'll use this 
cheaper one right now even though I know 
forget all of that. 
use the tool that works and not have to 
have the stress of dealing with that 
while also trying to actually build a 
product or use this to ideulate or build 
and plan or do so much more cuz again 
these tools are for so much more than 
just coding. Yeah, it's like magic. 
Guys, look, I wanted to give it a full 
month before I kind of shared my 
thoughts on Claude Code. And I know I'm 
behind the hype wagon now because again, 
there's already new stuff coming out. 
I'll just say I did not go into this 
expecting to like this much. This is how 
hyped I am of it. And the ability to now 
do the full BMED method and use these 
agents all within the same interface is 
just wonderful. Thank you for the more 
than 5,000 that subscribed to this 
channel. I really appreciate every one 
of you more than you can know. If you 
haven't joined the Discord, please do 
and share your thoughts. Whether you're 
using the BMAD method or if you have 
other ideas or improvements or how 
you're using agents or agentic tools, I 
would love to hear about it. and just 
chat. So, stop by and we'll see 
everybody soon in the next video.