This is probably about the worst place 
to be recording right now without a 
microphone because it is super windy and 
I also got these wind chimes behind me. 
But with the power of AI and Da Vinci 
Resolve can basically flip a switch. 
It's like magic. So, let's check it out. 
And just like that, 
now how do I sound? Can you tell a big 
difference? I bet you can. But anyways, 
that's not what I'm here to talk about 
and that's not what this channel is 
about. 
I want to talk about why I made the BMAD 
method. 
And I guess I really should talk. Why am 
I doing this in the middle of a 95 
degree heatwave, very windy day? Well, I 
just want to get outside and there's a 
little bit of shade and I have been, it 
seems, just locked 
in front of my computer for weeks 
working on the V4 upgrade. 
getting it pretty solid and ready for 
you guys to use it. So, it's easy to use 
and easy to install. There's now a 
built-in installer. You can watch this 
video. I showed how to use it with 
almost every IDE. Works great with cloud 
code, cursor, rue, and more idees with 
rule settings are coming real soon. But 
I want to talk about what the BMAD 
method really is because I think if you 
understand this, it will be much more 
powerful for you, but also it's going to 
help you make it your own. And ever 
since I started V1 of this back a few 
months ago, 
the idea was not necessarily at first to 
have people pull it off the shelf as is 
and use it. I was trying to share an 
idea and the idea was how powerful is a 
platform for a programming language 
where the language is English. So I had 
this idea a couple months ago 
and shortly after that I think about the 
time version two was out and I was 
working on V3. 
I think it was Sam Alman that said, "Old 
people, I guess like myself, think of 
the LLMs as like an advanced Google, but 
the youth think of it and treat it like 
a programming language." 
And I realized that is what the BMAD 
method already was, right? by taking 
these different personas and putting 
workflows into them and tasks and 
templates and conditions. If this, do 
that, if that, do this. 
It really sparked in me before I even 
heard that that this really is in and of 
itself not just a tool but a platform. 
Since then, what's becoming really 
popular is agents. And what are agents? 
Agents are nothing but natural language 
instructions running on a platform that 
can execute them with an LLM. The 
future, my friends, is in natural 
language coding. And I truly believe it. 
That's why in V3, it hit me that this 1 
million context window and the 
optimization that is going on in Gemini 
2.5 Pro is so powerful that we didn't 
have to have all of these agents be 
separate. We could actually put all of 
the agents together in one massive file 
and build the BMAD orchestrator or the 
BMAD agent as it was called in V3. And 
it's actually able to 
transform into all of these other 
personas 
and know based on which persona it is 
which tasks it can run, what parameters 
to run the task with, what to use for 
inputs, when to complain if it doesn't 
have the right input. What are we 
talking about at the end of the day? We 
are talking about nothing but another 
programming language. Maybe it's built a 
little bit inefficiently because it's 
natural language and there's a lot of 
processing power that goes into 
processing these things, but we're 
building up logical sets of prompts and 
rules to control a machine. At the end 
of the day, natural language in English 
is the programming language. 
Around the same time, a friend told me 
that he believes the future is nothing 
but agents 
and data. Now, think about that. What 
does that mean? Agents and data. That 
means natural language instructions 
running on a machine 
and the data. Data is not going away. 
You control the data, you control the 
money. But everybody's going to be 
building agents. 
I think that's a lot closer than we even 
imagined. And just a few days ago, 
Andrew Carpathy, the guy who you may 
know is the tweeter of the Vibe Code, 
but his foundational video just 
explaining how LLM worked when she had 
GPT came out a few years ago, was 
actually really groundbreaking. And I 
think his explanations of LLM was much 
better than his vibe coding tweet. But I 
think that's what he'll be remembered 
for. As I was working on V4 though, his 
video came out a few days ago. I'll 
share this link in the description 
because it's a good watch. 
Pretty much all code from the 1960s 
up until the early 2010s was source code 
as you know it, right? It was Forran, 
Cobalt, C++, Java, C, Python.net, 
Node, right? But it's all just software. 
But then of neural networks came out and 
this pi which was all the software 
started to get eaten into and slowly 
these neural networks are doing a lot of 
processing what you might know as like 
ML or AI before the LLMs started doing a 
lot that we never imagined and that 
started taking away a little bit of I 
guess I'll call it market share from the 
overall pie of all source code. 
So imagine that from 1960ish, 
maybe even earlier, all the way until 
about 2014, that's really all there was. 
And then like that it shifted and this 
other thing started to emerge until 
about 
2018 
2020 
and then all of a sudden there's this 
new thing on the scene now which we know 
is the LMS in natural language 
processing or basically English. This is 
the third wave of software. Natural 
language English or whatever language 
you speak prompting natural language to 
the LLMs is now coding starting now and 
into the future. So on here when you're 
using the BMAD method, you know, you're 
using it in cursor or whatever your IDE 
is to produce source code, classical 
source code that has not changed since 
the 1960s. 
But look at the BMAD method itself. 
really dig into there. Read the 
architecture file in the docs and look 
at what gets installed in thisbead- 
method folder in your project when 
you're using this. What do you see in 
there? You can understand this code 
because it is the code that you have 
been speaking all of your life. It's 
English. It is programming and 
instructions, all the natural language 
to build up an Asian framework that you 
can use dayto-day to help you What does 
that tell you though? Well, what that 
tells me is this is a new wave of 
language that is going to eat the rest 
of the software world and the future is 
literally going to be agents or natural 
language LLM instructions 
and data. 
This is the future, my friends. It's a 
great time to learn software engineering 
principles and practices and it is still 
a good time to learn actual coding 
languages like Python or JavaScript or 
any language you want to work on. It's 
not going away. Those skills translate. 
People that have this experience and are 
good at this. They can master vibe 
coding, but they can master 
understanding what is going on when 
they're vibe coding and they are going 
to be able to be the true masters of 
this third wave of coding that's coming. 
So, this is a little bit of a different 
video this time. So, if you've watched 
it this far, thanks for watching. My 
name is Brian. Really do enjoy this 
community. So, continue to check out V4 
of the BMAD method. And we'll see you 
soon back behind the desk with a more 
normal video where I'll be talking about 
some of the other new key features of 
the V4 method and also doing a full app 
build. So, thank you everybody.