I learned MCP for you. In the past 68 
months, you've probably heard a lot of 
people talk about MCP. MCP is so 
amazing. MCP is such a game changer. 
Well, I must tell you, they are correct. 
I have taken a bunch of courses, build 
MCP servers and clients for our team and 
a couple B2B clients that we work with 
as well. We've also included a section 
on MCP in our AI agents boot camp. So, 
in this video, I'm going to explain to 
you the fundamentals of MCP, show you 
how to use MCP servers and how to build 
your own MCP servers as well, both with 
code and no code. Throughout this video, 
there will be little assessments, which 
if you can answer these questions, then 
congratulations, you'll be educated on 
MCP. Now, without further ado, let's go. 
A portion of this video is sponsored by 
Balt. Okay, a quick overview of the 
structure of today's video. First, we're 
going to define MCP, talk about why it's 
important, and how it is that we use 
them. Then we'll be diving under the 
hood in which I'll cover the 
fundamentals of MCP, the concepts and 
frameworks that govern it. Basically, 
everything you need to know to be able 
to use and build your own servers. But 
it is not enough just to know all these 
concepts. So I'll actually show you how 
to build one as well, both with code and 
no code. Let us now define MCP. MCP, 
which is the abbreviation of model 
context protocol, is defined by 
Enthropic, the people who made it, as an 
open protocol that standardizes how your 
LM applications connect to and work with 
your tools and data sources. Okay. What? 
So first time I read that definition I 
was like sounds important. So let me 
actually explain it to you the way that 
I understood it using an analogy. MCP is 
like this USB plug here. It allows any 
device to be able to connect to any 
other devices to be able to work 
together. Prior to this universal 
standard of the USB port, if you wanted 
to connect things to each other, like 
say your computer to your microphone, to 
your webcam, you would be having a very 
bad time because all of the ports to 
connect with each other would be 
different, which means you would have to 
get a bunch of different special cords 
and different adapters to manage to get 
them to work together. And then you 
would have to write the software to 
cater towards like those specific port 
thingies, etc. Very complex, very messy. 
But with this USB port, we're able to 
now just connect all these devices to 
each other and they just work. Amazing. 
Wow. Do not be fooled. It sounds like 
such a simple little thing, right? Just 
like standardizing the port connectors, 
but it amounted to massive amounts of 
innovation with this ease of use. Now 
before MCP existed, if you have your 
agent and you wanted to give it access 
to different tools and different context 
or different types of data, you would 
have actually faced a very similar 
problem to the pre- USB port days 
because each external system and tool 
that you're trying to connect to has 
their own specific definition of how it 
is that you interact with it, which is 
their special API. For example, if 
you're trying to make a scheduling 
agent, you would need to give it access 
to like your calendar, your email, a 
note-taking app, Zoom, Calendarly, and 
you would need to custom write the code 
for each specific tool that you want to 
give your agent, which is a pain in the 
ass. So that's why when Enthropic 
proposed the model context protocol, the 
MCP, which would standardize the ways 
that we interact with all of these 
external softwares, everybody was like, 
amazing. Wow, so good. Now your agent is 
able to have access to all of these 
different external softwares and tools 
using the same protocol. Within just 
months that the number of tools that you 
can give your AI agents now, which are 
called MCP servers massively exploded to 
thousands. Now there's over 20,000 
pre-built MCP servers that you can just 
grab and give your AI agent. Here is 
just a small sample. Now, anybody can 
easily write them, publish them, and use 
them. Let me actually show you exactly 
how easy it is to use an MCP server. 
Like say for example, I'm looking at 
these MCP servers here. You can pick any 
of them, but let's just pick like Alpha 
Vantage for example. It is a MCP server 
that enables LLMs and aentic workflows 
to seamlessly interact with realtime and 
historical stock market data through the 
model context protocol. Okay, great. So, 
you can get access to stock market data. 
You copy this stuff which allows your LM 
application to have access to the MCP 
server. copy it into your LM application 
like for example cloud code if you want 
to give the tool to cloud code and voila 
you'll be able to have access to the MCP 
server and all the different tools that 
are defined on the server then you can 
do something like plot the coffee stock 
market prices for the past 10 years then 
Claude will say Claude wants to use the 
coffee function from Alpha Vantage are 
we going to allow this and we'll be like 
okay allow once using that tool was able 
to get the coffee price data and now 
it's going to created interactive 
visualization and there you go, coffee 
global prices with all of this 
information. Oh my god, coffee is so 
expensive these days. So yes, this is 
pretty much how easy it is to use any 
MCP server now. And I can also very 
easily switch what is called the host 
which is cloud code in this case to 
something else like NA10 for example or 
my own custom AI app. So let's now 
actually dive into the foundations of 
MCP so you will exactly understand what 
just happened here and how to build your 
own MCP servers as well. And by the way, 
MCP servers are actually even more 
powerful than just giving your agents 
tools. There's a lot more that you can 
actually do, which is why people are 
able to actually build these MCP servers 
and then sell them. 
The best course that I found which 
covers the foundations of MCP is 
Anthropic's own course in collaboration 
with deep learning.AI called MCP, build 
rich context AI apps with anthropic. The 
course starts with explaining basically 
why is MCP important. So I already 
covered most of that. Um but I do like 
the diagrams that they gave which shows 
that see before MCP there was fragmented 
AI development with each AI app you 
would need to have a custom 
implementation custom prompt logic 
custom tool calls and custom data 
access. And you got to do that for all 
of them versus with MCP which is a 
standardized AI development for each MCP 
compatible application you're able to 
have access to a lot of different types 
of MCP servers. For example, you can 
have access to a data store MCP server 
so that you can have access to data 
stores. You can have a CRM MCP server so 
that you can have access to CRM systems 
and a version control MCP server so you 
can have version control software. All 
plug-andplay and the other way around as 
well. Every time you build an MCP 
server, it would be reusable by various 
AI applications like a Google Drive MCP 
server that has access to Google Drive 
functions that can be used by MCP 
compatible AI assistant, MCP compatible 
AI agent, and an MCP compatible desktop 
app or IDE too. All right. Next 
important concept to understand is the 
client server architecture. Within the 
components that make up MCP, there are 
three different components. The host, 
client, and server, HCS for short. And 
the way that they relate to each other 
is the host houses the MCP client, which 
goes through the MCP protocol in order 
to have access to the MCP server. Hosts 
are LM applications that want access to 
certain data or tools through MCP. As I 
showed earlier, the cloud desktop is an 
example of a host. NA10 is also an 
example of a host. You can also have 
IDs, AI agents. Really any large 
language model application can be a 
host. Now the host wants to use the MCP 
servers which are the lightweight 
programs that expose different 
capabilities like the servers here like 
alpha advantage we talked about earlier 
that's able to get real-time historical 
stock data. Uh there's also time 
provides time and time zone conversion 
capabilities. Cherry studio that's used 
for LM provider support like AI 
assistance and conversions, documented 
data processing. Postgress SQL to 
provide readonly access to Postgress SQL 
databases allowing schema inspection and 
execution of readonly queries, GitLab, 
Reddist, etc., etc. There is a lot. Now, 
in order for the host to actually have 
access to these MCP servers, they need 
to maintain what is called an MCP 
client, which lives inside a host and 
evokes the MCP protocol to maintain that 
one-on-one connection with the server. 
Got it? MCP client lives in MCP host to 
invoke the MCP protocol in order to have 
access to the MCP servers which the 
players being HCS host client and 
server. All right, time for a little 
quiz for the example that I showed 
earlier which allowed cloud desktop able 
to access historical stock data alpha 
vantage and cloud code. Which is the 
host and which is the server? Put your 
answer into the comments. Okay, let's 
now talk about what are the things that 
are actually contained within an MCP 
server. Well, there are three major 
things. These are tools, resources, and 
prompt templates. TRP tools, which are 
the things that we've kind of seen the 
most of are functions and tools that can 
be invoked by the client. So, these are 
these things over here like time series, 
intraday, time series, daily, blah blah 
blah, symbol search, global quote. Also, 
stuff like sending a message in Gmail, 
calculator, retrieval and search, 
sending a message, updating database 
records. All of these are tools. But 
that is actually not all. You can also 
have what are called resources which are 
readonly data that is exposed by the 
server. So this is the data that the 
client is able to query but cannot 
change. For example, there are certain 
files like markdown notes that's 
contained within the server that you 
might want to read. Maybe it's tracking 
logs. Say for example, every time you're 
calling a weather app tool and you're 
getting that data, you might want to 
actually save a record of all the 
different weathers that you've 
collected. So at some point you might 
want to compile that together and make 
like a visualization or something, 
right? It would not be very efficient if 
every single time you had to go collect 
a weather data point. You would have to 
like use the tool and spam the tool over 
and over and over again. It could also 
contain just database records of stuff. 
Like for example, there's just like 
information that you're storing like 
contracts, meeting recordings, and 
notes. Then there's also prompt 
templates. These are structured prompt 
blueprints so that you don't have to 
force your user to have to come up with 
their own prompts. Like for example, if 
you are someone who's trying to use an 
MCP server that uh is able to summarize 
like a certain transcript from a meeting 
and then generate a report based upon 
it, you could just write something like, 
oh, summarize this transcript into key 
action items, then generate a report, 
right? Like you could write something 
like that, but that probably won't yield 
the best results. So instead, the people 
that actually built the MCP server can 
put within their MCP server a prompt 
template that is much more flushed out 
that's able to actually extract the 
insights and generate the report in a 
much better fashion so that the user all 
they have to do is input like some 
specifics into that template. This takes 
the burden of the prompt engineering 
from the user. As a full example, you 
can have like a SQLite MCP server which 
gives access to like a database which is 
the SQLite database. Don't worry if you 
don't know what that is. is basically 
just like a database that can store 
information. Anyways, so you can have 
tools that allow you to read the SQL 
database to insert information into the 
database to change the information in 
the database and to delete information 
from the database. In addition to that, 
there is a resource that is logging all 
of the changes that are happening to the 
database so you have a historical track 
record of what's happened. And there's 
also some prompt templates that 
incorporates the best practices to 
interact with that database. Make sense? 
All right, time for our next little 
assessment. Please answer the questions 
on screen now and put it into the 
comments so you are following along. MCP 
is all about giving your agents more 
context so that they can do really 
powerful things. So when you're ready to 
deploy your AI agents with a lot more 
functionalities and you want really good 
UI, NA10 plus Bolt is a really powerful 
combination and you don't need to write 
a single line of code or you can just 
directly build via Bolt. Bolt can take 
you from an idea to a fully functional 
product within minutes. Whether that is 
software for your team, an internal tool 
or a website. It has everything that you 
need, whether that's hosting, backend, 
database, off, domains, and even SEO. 
One of the things I really like about 
Bald is that it seamlessly handles the 
entire process so that you can focus on 
building real things as opposed to 
handling infrastructure. You don't need 
to handle like setup, configs, war, 
external tools. Bolt puts the most 
powerful tools used by developers into 
your hands with an intuitive chat 
interface. It really is as simple as 
this. So, here we have the Bolt new 
landing page. And we can just type 
something like build an app that blurs 
out people's faces in pictures and just 
click build now and then let it do its 
thing. Of course, you can go into a lot 
more details and have a lot of like 
specific specs within the app as well. 
And look at that. Here we have this 
application and let's actually try it 
out. We will put an image. Here is a 
picture of me when I was still a little 
Tina. And there you go. We have the 
original and then we have the blurred 
version. And you can download the 
blurred image as well. As well as you 
keep building, you can include a lot 
more features and tweak things however 
it is that you want. Let Bald do the 
heavy lifting so you can focus on your 
vision instead of fighting bugs. You can 
try out Bald V2 for free today at this 
link over here, also linked in 
description. Now, back to the video. 
Okay, so the final concept that I want 
to cover for MCP before diving into 
actually building them is the 
communication life cycle. The way that 
the MCP client and the MCP server 
communicate with each other. The first 
step is the initialization when the MCP 
client interacts with the MCP server 
being like, hey, I would like things 
from you now and they initiate a 
connection. Then you have the message 
exchange phase when the MCP client makes 
a request to the server. for example 
like I want to use this tool and the MCP 
server goes like okay and gives it back 
which is the response. So you do that 
exchange the messages and then finally 
there's the termination phase when the 
client and the server terminate and stop 
interacting with each other. Now the way 
that the messages are done is called a 
transport. The transport handles the 
underlying mechanics of how messages are 
sent and received between the client and 
the server. And there are two different 
categories of how transports work. First 
one is when the server is running 
locally like your MCP server and your 
host all of this is within a single 
machine. The analogy that I like to give 
here is say that your MCP client is like 
the diner and the chef is like your MCP 
server who is going to be the one 
preparing the food for your diner. Now 
for the server and the client running 
locally, it'll be like just you and your 
friend cooking at home with like a 
notebook. You as the chef is just like 
cooking it and maybe you're just like 
writing down what it is that you're 
doing and like just passing a note to 
your friend the diner for some reason. 
So they're like keeping updated about 
what's happening while you're cooking. 
That is like the standard out a running 
log that's just like living locally 
between you guys. You don't need to rely 
on like a waiter or a cashier or 
anything like that. The other category 
of transports is for remote servers. So 
these are servers that live in other 
machines on the cloud somewhere else. 
And there are two different approaches 
to interact with a remote server. The 
first one is called HTTP plus SSE which 
is server sent events. Don't worry so 
much about the terminologies. It 
supports what is called a stateful 
connection. Going back to that analogy, 
in this case, you would have to like 
leave your house and say you're at a 
restaurant. You, as a diner, would sit 
down at the restaurant. You're the 
client, and you would interact with a 
waiter, which is a server, and you would 
tell it stuff like, "Oh, here's my 
table. Here's the appetizers that I want 
to order, blah, blah, blah." And then 
your server would like bring you those 
things, and say if you want to order 
like the same drink again, you could 
just say something like, "I'll like to 
have the same drink again." And you 
don't have to like exactly specify 
whatever it is that you ordered the 
first time. So this is called a stateful 
connection because the server maintains 
the state of it like remembering the 
knowledge the memory of what you ordered 
all this information throughout the 
entire interaction. Now there's also 
what is called stateless stateful 
stateless. This kind of transport 
supported by a streamable HTTP. To be 
stateless is sort of like if you go to a 
fast food restaurant as opposed to like 
a sitdown restaurant. Like if you're at 
McDonald's for example, you would order 
like a Big Mac and I don't know like 
fries. But then like if you want to get 
something else, you want to also get 
like chicken nuggets, you would actually 
have to go and like input your order all 
over again and get like a new ticket and 
you have to wait again. The cashier 
that's clashing you out, the server 
doesn't actually remember everything 
that you ordered previously. So that's 
why it's called stateless because it 
doesn't remember all of the knowledge 
that came with your prior interactions. 
Each request is independent of each 
other. So without going into way too 
much detail about this like the 
streamable HTTP is the preferred 
transport method because it's able to 
support both stateful and stateless and 
there are instances in which you want to 
have like stateful interactions and 
instances in which you want to have 
stateless interactions as well. So this 
section might sound a little bit like 
detailed and theoretical but it does 
become very important when we're 
actually going to be using our MCP 
servers and building our MCP servers 
which is right after I give you this 
final little assessment. 
Okay, I'm going to show you the no code 
implementation of building your very own 
MCP server now. And we're going to be 
doing this by using n10. So you can do 
stuff like send an email to Tina with 
the address tina@ lonelyotopus.com 
asking her if she wants to grab a coffee 
sometime. 
Execute workflow. Press enter. goes 
through this. We can see that it's 
accessing the AI agent is accessing the 
MCP client which is here. It contains 
the ability to have a calculator and 
also the tool that allows to send a 
message to Gmail. So, it's able to 
access the tool to send a message to 
Gmail so that you will be able to get 
this email. Hi Tina, I hope this message 
finds you well. I was wondering if you 
like to grab a coffee sometime. Let me 
know what works for you. Best regards. 
Email was automatically sent with NATO. 
Okay. So, how to build this from 
scratch? start off with a fresh new 
workflow using NA10. If you have no idea 
what NA10 is and you're not familiar 
with it at all, check out this video 
over here. I go into details about how 
to build AI agents using NA10. I'm not 
going to go into this here, so the video 
is not super long, but basically it's a 
no code low code tool that allows you to 
build workflows. Also allows you to 
build MCP servers. So you have your 
server trigger over here and you want to 
add some tools. Like for example, we can 
add the calculator tool, which is just 
like the ability to calculate things and 
do math. Not super innovative but yes. 
And then we can also add the email tool. 
So maybe like a Gmail tool. And in here 
we need to set up the credentials like 
create new credential. You can kind of 
go through the process. So all you have 
to do is like sign into your Gmail um 
which I will do here. And then you'll 
have the account that is connected. Yay. 
Then um because we just want to send 
emails here. So the operation here is 
going to be send. So for two we're going 
to let the model decide these. So, let 
the model decide the subject. Let's al 
also let the model decide uh we'll have 
the email type HTML and the message. 
Let's also let the model decide that as 
well. Wonderful. Amazing. So simple. 
Right now, let's save this. Now, in 
order to actually use our server, we 
want to come here, make sure that it's 
active. So, the server itself is going 
to be active. And we want to take this 
production URL. So, this allows access 
to the server. Now I have another 
workflow over here which is an AI agent 
in which you can prompt it directly and 
respond also attach the open AI chat 
model here. So in order to add the MCP I 
can click the MCP client tool the 
endpoint we're going to copy paste what 
we got from the MCP server and here in 
the server transport see we have the 
server send events which is deprecated 
and the HTTP streamable the two 
different transport right so we're going 
to click HTTP streamable transport and 
we don't need to change anything else 
over here. Wow. Now we have the MCP 
client. So let's actually test it out. 
Let's actually do math this time. 
Calculate 10 
11 * 99. 
We can see here that the AI agent goes 
over here. Human says calculate 11 * 99. 
It goes to the MCP client and it uses 
the tool cal the calculator tool which 
we have. And it says useful for getting 
the results of a math expression. And 
then the open AI chat model was able to 
get the results by using the MCP client. 
And then we were able to get the final 
result here with the output being the 
result of 11 multipi by 99 is 1,089. 
Yay. See how easy it is. There's a lot 
that you can do with this. Of course, 
you can add like so many more tools into 
your MCP server. And you also don't need 
to have NAN as your host. We can easily 
switch out the host for something else. 
Like for example, maybe you want to 
change out the host for cloud desktop. 
So what we need to do is go on cloud 
desktop. So go on help, type in 
developer. So switch to developer mode 
and then under developer open the claw 
desktop config file. So this should be 
empty. You can open it with whatever 
text editor. So I'm here I'm just using 
VS code for it. And you want to copy 
paste this. So this is defined MCP 
server and we're using NAN because 
that's where the server is and we are 
using SSE over here. And over here just 
paste the endpoint here. So command S or 
control S. Save it. Restart Claude and 
wow amazing. We have NA10 over here 
under the tools and includes send a 
message in Gmail and the calculator. And 
then you can do the same thing here. 
Send an email to Tina@ lonely 
octopus.com 
asking her to host an octopus party. 
Click enter. 
See it'll say over here Claude wants to 
use send a message in Gmail from NA10. 
And you can click allow once to allow it 
to use the tool from the MCP server. And 
moment of truth, we have over here, "Hi 
Tina, I hope this message finds you 
well. I want to reach out to see if 
you'd be interested in hosting an 
octopus party. I think it'll be a 
wonderful event and you'll be the 
perfect host for it. Let me know if 
you're available and interested. Looking 
forward to hearing from you. Best 
regards. Yes, automatically sent with 
NAT." Voila. See, super easy, right? 
Okay. So, now I want to show you the 
code implementation of doing this. Now 
with code you are able to do a lot more 
than this no code approach. I think the 
no code approach is amazing. It's great, 
right? It's really accessible and easy 
to use. Remember we talked about earlier 
about having like additional resources 
and also prompt templates. You as of 
right now cannot do that using NAT. You 
can't actually put in the prompt 
templates and specify those and you also 
can't put in additional resources as 
well. And in the code implementation you 
can. So I'm not going to go and show you 
every single line of code right now 
because I don't want to make this video 
like super duper long. But I want to 
show you like the snippet of these are 
the tools that we're going to be using 
and this is how you can actually get it 
to run. Okay. So for this code demo, 
we're going to be using cloud desktop as 
the host and I'm going to showcase a 
simple MCP server that's able to provide 
tools, resources, and prompts for 
working with Google Sheets and Google 
forms. So we can tell that the MC3 
server is connected because if you go to 
G Sheets over here, which is the MCP 
server name, you can see all the tools 
that are contained over here. So I have 
a lot of different spreadsheets that are 
available. So let's actually ask list 
out the spreadsheets that are available. 
It will want to use the list 
spreadsheets. So this is the tool and it 
tells us that we have 20 spreadsheets 
that are available in the Google account 
like NA10 form, anonymous feedback, the 
only octis alumni blah blah blah etc. 
All of these different ones. Would you 
like me to read the data from any of 
these spreadsheets here? I can say use 
read sheet to get the columns 
of the anonymous 
feedback spreadsheet. 
So it wants to use read sheet and this 
is actually a resource. So it allows you 
it's a readonly file where you can 
actually read what the column names are. 
You can see the spreadsheet ID and the 
information that's contained over there. 
And finally, I want to show you what it 
looks like to use some of the prompt 
templates. So, if we click over here, 
add from sheets, here are some of the 
prompt templates. So, let's click 
analyze sheet data. And we can say use 
this to analyze the anonymous 
pretty spell anonymous 
feedback 
spreadsheet 
and create a dashboard just to make it 
look pretty. 
And we can see here is what the prompt 
template actually looks like. And it 
shall do this. Let it do its thing. So 
while it's doing that, let me actually 
show you what the code looks like and 
how to run this MCP server. Here's the 
readme. If you follow these 
instructions, you'll be able to run this 
MCP server yourself. You can see that 
the tools that it contains include 
things like list spreadsheet, read the 
sheet, write the sheet, append the 
sheet, etc. It also has the resource 
where you can use the sheet in order to 
access sheet data as the resource. And 
it has prompt templates including 
analyze sheet data which is template for 
analyzing sheet data. Creating report 
template. So a template for creating 
report spreadsheets and form to sheet 
which is a template for form to sheet 
workflow in the code itself. Not going 
into too much detail over here. You can 
see that after we define the credentials 
the way that you can define these tools 
that you can decorate the function. So 
you know that's MCP tool. So this one is 
the function for listing the 
spreadsheet. This one is for reading the 
sheet etc. And then the way that you can 
show that it's a resource is that you 
just decorate it so that you know that 
it's a resource. So get sheet resource. 
And here are the prompt templates 
themselves. So they're actually 
hardcoded directly in these different 
prompt templates. So let's go back to 
claude here and see what is happening 
there. Great. We see that it analyzed 
the anonymous feedback spreadsheet. So I 
read that information, analyzed the data 
using the template that we provided and 
it actually created a dashboard as well. 
So here is the dashboard. So total 
response is 43. The average MPS score 
which is the net promoter score is 4.9 
5.98 blah blah blah all these things. So 
it tells you information about this 
different categories uh how the study 
plan progress tracker is qualitative 
information about what attracted 
students to our boot camp and insights 
as well. So different types of 
information including what works well 
and what doesn't work well etc etc. So 
yeah there you go. This is the code demo 
of an MCP server. I hope you can see 
that there's so much potential for so 
many different types of things that you 
can build now that you have the ability 
to create your own MCP servers. You can 
of course also change your host. You use 
this MCP server with NA10 uh with your 
own agent with your any large language 
model application that you build as 
well. The possibilities are endless. So 
if you do want to dig deeper into this, 
I highly recommend that you actually 
check out the anthropic deep learning AI 
course that goes into the exact 
implementation step by step how to build 
this entire MCP server. It is really, 
really, really powerful. There are of 
course a lot of other ways that you can 
implement MCP servers as well, both code 
and no code approaches. I also really 
like this one by Network Chuck where he 
goes into a lot of detail about how to 
use Docker in order to do this. So I'm 
going to link his video below as well. I 
really recommend that you check it out 
if you're interested in implementing it 
using Docker. But for this video, I'm 
going to end it here. I hope that you 
now have an excellent fundamental 
understanding of MCP and how to actually 
build them yourself, too. Here is the 
final little assessment. Please answer 
these questions and put them into the 
comments. 
Hope you enjoyed this video and thank 
you so much for staying until the end. 
I'll see you guys in the next video for 
live stream. 
[Music]